                   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT




                                          Between



                                     COOS COUNTY


                                             And



                            OREGON    NURSES ASSOCIATION




                              July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2027




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                          i
                                 Table of Contents


ARTICLE 1 - PREAMBLE ooo... ccceceeeeeseceneteeesereeeenserneeseeeecnenteniasnneens 4


ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION .......cccceseeeer
                               ree eetcsrseessnssercseereeseseessaaees 6


ARTICLE 4 - RIGHTS OF PARTIES vo... ce cccece ce tesesserseeresreeseetanrsenaee 7


ARTICLE 5 - MANAGEMENT               RIGHTS uc. eeee ee eee eter retserereretseasans 7


ARTICLE 6 - WORK RULES ......              cect     cee cen ence nea teernerereseQnniannncnenies 8


ARTICLE 7 - ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP.......ccccscseseseeesseetesessenees 8


ARTICLE 8 - HOLIDAYS 00... eect                 cee cence cect rsaessausereeereeseasernannenneenaes 9


ARTICLE 9 - VACATION LEAVE .0.....ecccecccceseeescrseecceeeesseneteesenereeneneieees 11


ARTICLE 10 - SICK LEAVE. .....ccccccceesscsscesereeerenscesseesneeenaeeeeeeseneaniiaeees 14


ARTICLE 11] - OTHER LEAVE .....cccccscscecettecnsereenerenettiieccreneeerneeeees 16


ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK oo ceiccctee
                                 eens erteerneeteesecnanteanennieers 19


ARTICLE 13 - OVERTIME ......ccccccceseceseseseretnsesseseerersteeaascenserneessasees 20


ARTICLE 14 - WAGES 0.00. cece              teenie rie eer ees erentenerecererennerensceneaniets 22


ARTICLE 15 - HEALTH & LIFE INSURANCE... ccccsessccseeeressetseerineane 25


ARTICLE 16 - PENSION.......cccesccccceseceserseeereeesssssesceeeneessteestenssnseeees 26


ARTICLE 17 - WORKERS! COMPENSATION |... cccccseresecetetessseateereeens 26


Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                             ii
ARTICLE 18 - OTHER BENEFITS ooo. cccccccccceeneeneesssesssecaeteteeteeneenes 27


ARTICLE 19 - ADJUDICATION OF RIGHTS ooo...            eee ceesceseeveeereeeneentees 29

ARTICLE 20 - SPECIAL CONFERENCES ......ccccccccesererseeesseteenanteennetae 30


ARTICLE 21 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE ..0....cccecseeeeeseeeeneeeees 31


ARTICLE 22 - GENERAL PROVISIONS .....c ccc eect tec tsteeseerneereeee 32


ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY AND LAY OFF...                ccc ecetersrsererneeniees 33


ARTICLE 24 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS.....c            ec ccneeseteesneeterteenneree 36


ARTICLE 25 - WARRANTY OF AUTHORITY ou... cc ccceceeeesneeeeneeniees 36


ARTICLE 26 - REPRODUCTION COSTS oo. ccce ccc te ceteris sneererereeeaatee 36


ARTICLE 27 - SAVINGS CLAUSE .occcc cece              cen ee iceeeennernerserenreeties 36


ARTICLE 28 - CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS 0...               i eccerecseeteeeseeteertereens 37


ARTICLE 29 - DURATION AND TERMINATION |... ccccseeeresteeneeee 37




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                    iii
                                   ARTICLE 1 - PREAMBLE


                This agreement is entered into by Coos County, Oregon hereinafter called the

"County," and the Oregon Nurses Association, hereinafter referred to as the "Association."

The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the full and complete agreement concerning

collective bargaining matters including wages, hours, working conditions and other matters

specified in the Public Employee Collective Bargaining Act (PECBA).


                           ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITION OF TERMS


                SECTION      1. "Employee" means any nurse employed by the County who

fills a position in one of the classifications listed in the article of recognition.


                SECTION 2. "Extra help" means an employee who is not considered to be

either a regular full time or regular part time employee.     Such employee shall be ineligible

for any of the benefits provided in this contract, including but not limited to vacation, sick
leave, health and welfare coverage and pension contributions. Hours worked by an extra

employee shall not exceed 1040 in any employee's twelve (12) consecutive month period of

time.


                SECTION 3. A “regular full-time employee” shall be defined as any

employee who regularly works or is scheduled to work forty (40) hours per week for a

period of six (6) consecutive months.


                SECTION 4. A “regular part time employee” is an employee who is

regularly scheduled to work less than forty (40) hours per week for six (6) consecutive

months.
                 SECTION 5. A “probationary employee” means a regular full time or

regular part time employee who, when initially hired, or promoted, serves a probationary
period consisting of one year following initial employment with the County or promotion to

a new classification or position within the bargaining unit. During the probationary period,

a probationary employee may be dismissed, or returned to their former position with or

without cause at the sole discretion of the County.   This probationary period may be

extended by mutual written agreement between the employee and the County for up to six

months. The Extension Agreement shall describe the reasons for such extension.

                In the event of a promotion, (which is not merely an assignment to a different
position) the newly promoted employee shall serve a probationary period consisting of no

less than six months. The probationary period for a newly promoted employee may be

extended up to an additional six months, provided however, in no event will the newly

promoted employee's probationary period last more than one (1) year from the date the

employee first assumed the new position.    The employee who is promoted does not have to

re-qualify for benefits. The employee who is promoted shall have no right to return to their

former position after thirty G0) days of employment in the new position. Within thirty (30)

days of the promotion, if the employee’s former position remains vacant, the employee may

return to their former position, or the employer may place the employee back in her former
position. The County shall have the unlimited right to fill a vacated position as a result of a

promotion for thirty (30) days with extra-help. After thirty G0) days, the County shall

follow its customary practice with respect to use of extra-help.


                 SECTION 6, The feminine gender includes the masculine and the singular

tense includes the plural. “Days” means calendar days unless otherwise specified.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                        5
                 SECTION 7. “Family member" is defined as husband, wife, same-sex

domestic partner, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,

daughter-in-law, son-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, uncle,

aunt, nephew, niece, stepparent or stepchild of the individual, unless otherwise provided by
law. Legally adoptive or foster parents or children of the employee are included in the

definitions of “father,” “mother,” 2 66, “son,” and “daughter.”



                                 ARTICLE 3 - RECOGNITION


                The County recognizes the Association as the sole and exclusive bargaining

agent for the purpose of establishing wages, hours and other conditions of employment for

all regular full time and regular part time employees of the County employed in the Public

Health Nurse position.


                The employees in the recognized bargaining unit described above shall be

covered by the terms of this Agreement only when such employees are working in

classifications contained in this Agreement. This Agreement is not intended to cover any

other employee classification not specifically referred to in the prior paragraph. Nothing in
this Agreement shall be construed to prohibit supervisors or other employees from doing

work customarily performed by employees in this bargaining unit on a non-routine basis. In

addition to such non-routine work, supervisors shall not be regularly scheduled to perform

the work of bargaining unit members in excess of thirty-five percent (35%) of their time.

Examples of such non-routine work shall include but are not necessarily limited to work

performed during an emergency; when employees are absent due to illness or vacation; and

when employees are attending meetings or performing work out of town.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                            6
                               ARTICLE 4 - RIGHTS OF PARTIES


                 The provisions of this Agreement shall be applied equally to all employees in

the bargaining unit without discrimination as to age, marital status, sex, sexual orientation,

race, color, creed, national origin, or political affiliation. The Association shall share

equally with the County the responsibility for applying the provisions of this Agreement.


                 The County and Association agree not to interfere with the rights of

employees to become members of the Association. There shall be no discrimination,

interference, restraint, or coercion by the County or any County representative or the
Association or Association representative against any employee acting in an official capacity

on behalf of the Association or County, or for any other lawful cause, provided such activity

or other cause does not interfere with the effectiveness and efficiency of County operation in

serving and carrying out its responsibility to the public.



                             ARTICLE 5 - MANAGEMENT              RIGHTS


                 It is recognized that the County retains certain powers, duties and obligations

to be exercised in the interest of the public health, safety and welfare which cannot be

delegated or contracted away.       It is further recognized by the parties that the County retains

all managerial rights and prerogatives except as specifically modified by a provision of this
contract; and that they include, but are not limited to, the right and prerogative to:


                 1.         Direct employees.

                2.          Evaluate, hire, promote, transfer, assign and retain employees in

positions, and to suspend, demote, discharge or take other disciplinary action against

employees.



Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                            7
                 3.         Relieve employees from duties because of lack of work or other
legitimate reason.


                4.          Maintain the efficiency of governmental and County operations.


                5.          Determine the methods, means and personnel by which operations are

to be conducted,


                6.          Take whatever action may be necessary to carry out the missions of

the County in situations of emergency.


                 7,         Determine reasonable schedules of work and establish the methods

and processes by which such work is performed.


                 8.         Determine the need for, and assign employees to, educational and
training programs, on-the-job training and other educational activities.



                                   ARTICLE 6 - WORK RULES

                It is jointly recognized that the County retains broad authority to fulfill its

responsibilities and may do so by implementing work rules, oral or written. It is agreed,

however, that no work rule will be adopted or implemented which is inconsistent with any

specific provision of this Agreement. The County agrees the Association has the right to

challenge work rules in the grievance procedure if it believes the work rule to be arbitrary

and/or capricious.

                       ARTICLE 7 - ASSOCIATION MEMBERSHIP


        Section 1, The County agrees to deduct once each month the Association

membership dues of those Association members who individually authorize such deductions

Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                           8
in writing on a form supplied by the Association. The Association shall provide written

authorization to deduct and/or cease deduction of membership dues to the County within ten

(10) calendar days of receiving a membership application form or opt out request form from

any nurse who is a member of the bargaining unit. Therefore, the cost per employee is fixed

proportionately at the amount of dues uniformly required by each member of the

Association, which amount shall be deducted monthly from Association member's

compensation and remitted monthly in the aggregate to the Association.

         Section 2. Such uniform amounts as the Association certifies to the County as the

monthly dues approved by the members of the Association shall be the amount deducted

hereunder. If applicable, the County agrees to deduct Union initiation fees.

         Section 3, If the County acts in compliance with the provisions of this Article, the

Association will indemnify, defend and hold the County harmless against any claims made

and against any suit instituted against the County as a result of the County's enforcement of

this Article.

         Section 4. The County will provide the Association with a list of nurses every 120

calendar days showing: name, address, date of hire, job classification, OSBN license

number, telephone number and FTE status. The County will also provide a list of newly

hired nurses with the same information and the names of terminated nurses whenever a

member of the bargaining unit is hired or terminated.


                                  ARTICLE 8 - HOLIDAYS


                 SECTION 1. The following days are paid holidays.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                         9
                  New Year's Day                            Independence Day

                  Martin Luther King, Jr.'s Birthday        Labor Day

                  Presidents' Day                           Veteran's Day

                  Memorial Day                              Thanksgiving Day
                  Friday following Thanksgiving Day       | Christmas Day


                 Any day declared by the Governor of Oregon as a holiday for purposes of
national mourning or celebration.


                 After ninety (90) calendar days of employment from the date of hire, two (2)

floating holidays will be granted to regular full or part time employee(s).   Part time

employees shall receive pro rata floating holiday pay. Such holidays must be taken once

during any fiscal year and will not be cumulative.     The department head and the employee

will schedule a mutually convenient time for observance of the floating holidays. After

completion of ten (10) years of continuous county service, regular full and part-time

employees shall be granted one (1) additional floating holiday to be taken once during any
fiscal year and will not be cumulative. After completion of fifteen (15) years of continuous

County service regular full and part time employees shall be granted one (1) additional

floating holiday to be taken once during any fiscal year and will not be cumulative.


                 SECTION 2. Whenever a holiday falls on a weekend, or a nonscheduled
work day, the closest scheduled work day to the actual holiday shali be taken as the

observed holiday. In order to be eligible for holiday pay, an employee must work the

scheduled day before and the scheduled day after such holiday or be on paid leave (as that
term is defined in this Agreement) and have worked or been on paid leave no less than

eighty (80) hours in the calendar month of the holiday. The eighty (80) hour requirement




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                        10
 shall be pro rata for part time employees,   An employee who fails to meet all of the above-

 described requirements shali not receive holiday pay.


                  SECTION 3. Regular full time employees who do not work on a holiday
 shall receive the equivalent of one full day's pay for that holiday. Regular part time

 employees shall have pro-rated holidays, the number of hours of which will be in direct

 proportion to the percentage of the forty (40) hour work week worked by the regular part

 time employees. If an employee works on a holiday, the employee shall receive his or her

 regular pay plus overtime for the number of those hours actually worked, For all hours in

 excess of eight (8) hours worked on a holiday, the employee will receive double time for all

 hours worked. If a holiday falls on a regular work day, a part time employee shall have the

 option to make up the lost time due to said holiday during that pay period. If a holiday is

 observed on a part time employee's regular day off, the County may schedule such accrued

 time off so long as the employee has accrued sufficient holiday time so that a full shift off

 can be scheduled without loss of pay.


                  SECTION 4. Holidays which occur during a vacation or paid leave shall not

. be charged toward such vacation or paid leave.



                             ARTICLE 9 - VACATION LEAVE

                  SECTION 1. Accrual. After having served six (6) continuous months of
 regular full-time service, employees shall be eligible and shall be credited with forty-eight

 (48) hours of vacation leave. After having served six (6) continuous months of regular part

 time service, employees shall be eligible and shail be credited with a pro rata portion of

 forty-eight (48) hours of vacation leave based upon the actual number of hours worked each

 month during the six (6) month period.



 Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                         11
                In order to be eligible for vacation accrual, a regular full-time employee must

have worked or been on paid leave no less than eighty (80) hours in the month. Regular part

time employees shall accumulate vacation leave on a pro rata basis. Employees shall accrue

vacation leave at the rates provided on the following schedule of continuous services:

       (a)      Less than five (5) full years’ service, eight (8) hours for each month of

                service cumulative to a maximum of one hundred ninety-two (192) hours (24

                days). After six (6) months of service, the employee shall be entitled to

                forty-eight (48) hours vacation.

        (b)      Five (5) full years, but less than ten (10) full years of service, ten (10) hours
                 for each month of service cumulative to a maximum of two hundred forty

                 (240) hours (30 days).

        (c)      Ten (10) full years, but less than fifteen (15) full years of service, twelve

                 (12) hours for each month of service cumulative to a maximum of two

                 hundred eighty-eight (288) hours (36 days).


        (d)      Fifteen (15) full years but less than twenty (20) full years of service, fourteen
                 (14) hours for each month of service, cumulative to a maximum of three

                 hundred thirty-six (336) hours (42 days).


        )       Twenty (20) or more full years service, sixteen (16) hours for each month of

                service, cumulative to a maximum of three hundred eighty-four (384) hours
                (48 days).


                Employees shall not accumulate vacation hours in excess of the amounts

indicated in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e). Whenever it appears that an employee will

lose vacation hours because of accrual limitations they shall be notified in writing by the

department at least three (3) months prior to the time that such vacation time would be lost.


Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                          12
Such notification shall be countersigned by the employee and a copy kept of record by the

department head. The employee and department shall arrange for a mutually convenient

time for vacation time to be taken within the three (3) month period.


                  Earned and unused vacation time exceeding the maximum allowed shall be

forfeited, except that vacation time exceeding the maximum amount to be accrued shall not

be forfeited whenever, as a result of a requirement of the department head, such time cannot

be taken. Vacation time not forfeited shall be taken as soon as possible and as mutually

agreed. Vacation accrual shall be prorated for part time employees.


                  SECTION 2. Vacation Accrual During Leave and After Lay Off, Ail

authorized leave taken as a part of the employee's continuous service shall be counted for the

purpose of determining the employee's accrual rate. The employee shall accrue vacation

leave when on paid leave. To the extent permitted by applicable law, an employee on a

short-term disability or an employee off work as a result of a workers' compensation injury

shall not accrue vacation or other benefits during the period of such leave.


                  Prior service of employees returning from lay off status shall be counted for

the purpose of determining the employee's accrual rate, but the time during lay off shall not

be counted.


                  SECTION 3, Vacation Times. Employees shall be permitted to choose

either split or entire vacation periods, and shall take not less than five (5) working days

annually,     Whenever practicable, and consistent with the needs of the County and the

availability of vacation relief, employees shall have the right to select vacation times. It

shall be the responsibility of supervisors annually to establish lists showing the vacation

periods chosen by individual employees for planning purposes. In the event of a conflict
between employees over choice of vacation dates during the first ninety (90) calendar days

Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                         13
of any calendar year, the conflict shall be resolved by the senior employee having the right

to select the preferred vacation time. Each employee shall be permitted to exercise his or

her right of seniority for vacation scheduling only one (1) time every other calendar year.

After the first ninety (90) calendar days of the calendar year, vacation requests will be

granted on a first come, first served basis.


                 SECTION 4. Termination or Death.      In the event of the termination or death

of an employee, all accumulated vacation credits shall be paid at that employee's current

salary rate either to the employee or to their heirs. An employee who is terminated for just

cause shall not be eligible for any accrued but unused vacation pay.



                                 ARTICLE 16 - SICK LEAVE


                 SECTION 1, Regular full-time employees shall accumulate sick leave at the

rate of eight (8) hours per month of service at their regular rates of pay for each month in

which he or she works and/or is on paid leave for eighty (80) hours or more. Regular part

time employees shall accumulate sick leave at a rate proportionate to the actual amount of
time worked. Regular employees are eligible for use of accrued sick leave upon completion

of one (1) month of employment.


                 SECTION 2. Accrued sick leave may be utilized by an employee when he or
she is unable to perform his or her duties by reason of his or her personal illness or injury,

necessity for medical or dental care including check-ups, exposure to contagious disease,

because of illness or injury to his or her family member, or for any other reason permitted

under ORS 653.601 ef seq. (i.e., “Oregon’s Sick Time Law”).       The employee may be

required to furnish satisfactory evidence of illness, consistent with state and federal law.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                        14
                 SECTION 3. No compensation for accrued sick leave shall be provided for

any employee for any other purpose, except as provided herein, Upon an employee’s death,

or termination of employment for whatever reason (excluding termination for just cause),
and the employee has completed one (1) continuous year of service, either the employee or

the employee’s heirs shall be paid twenty-five percent (25%) of his/her unused sick leave up

to nine hundred sixty (960) hours. Upon retirement, the balance of sick leave hours shall be
reported to PERS. Payments upon termination shal! be based upon the employee's final rate

of pay. Sick leave shall not accrue during any period of leave of absence or layoff.


                 SECTION 4. Sick Leave Abuse, There is no presumption of sick leave
abuse, and it is presumed that employees in the bargaining unit will always endeavor to

maintain the highest standards of personal and official integrity.


                 SECTION 5. Transfer of Sick Leave. An employee having accumulated sick

leave may transfer a portion of his or her accumulated sick leave to any other County
employee who is suffering from an injury, disability or illness preventing the employee from

returning to work and who has exhausted all of his or her accumulated sick leave, accrued

vacation leave and other leave with pay to which he or she may be entitled. Sick leave

contributions may be made only in units of eight (8) hours. Contributions of sick leave shall

be limited as follows: Only employees who have accumulated more than two hundred forty

(240) hours may make contributions, and no employee may contribute more than forty (40)

hours per year to any other employee.   No employee can receive more than two hundred

forty (240) hours contributed sick leave in any one (1) calendar year.


                 SECTION 6. The County agrees to unlimited accumulation of sick leave for
Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) benefits. Sick leave accumulation may be




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       15
used to increase employee retirement benefits by applying the total accumulation to the last
three (3) years of work for the purpose of determining retirement benefits.



                               ARTICLE 11 - OTHER LEAVE

                  SECTION 1. Personal Leave of Absence. A personal leave of absence up to
six (6) months may be granted within the discretion of the County for good cause shown

when applied for in writing and in advance, except in extreme circumstances.   The Board of

Commissioners has the authority to extend such leaves. Leaves of absence shall not be

approved for employees accepting other employment.

                  SECTION 2. Family Medical Leave.     Family Medical leave of absence shall

be as required by relevant State and Federal statutes and County Personnel Policies and

Procedures. An employee must use accrued sick, vacation and compensatory time during

such leave consistent with the County Personnel Policies and Procedures. Leave in excess
of that allowed by statute may be granted by the County.


                  SECTION 3. Jury Duty. An employee shall be granted jury leave with pay

for jury duty, up to a maximum of thirty (30) paid days in any consecutive twenty-four (24)

calendar month period, provided that the compensation paid to the employee during the jury

duty shall be reduced by the amount of money, if any, received by the employee for such

duties excluding mileage reimbursement associated with such jury duty unless operating a

County vehicle.


                  SECTION 4. Military Leave. Military, alternative service, and Peace Corps

leave shall be granted in accordance with Federal and State Law.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       16
                  SECTION 5. Court Appearance.        When an employee is subpoenaed for a

court appearance regarding County business, the employee shall be paid at his regular rate of

pay provided that the compensation paid to the employee during the court appearance shall

be reduced by the amount of money, if any, received by the employee for such duties,

excluding mileage reimbursement associated with such court appearance unless operating a
County vehicle.


                  SECTION 6. Educational Leave. After completing one (1) year of service,

an employee upon request may be granted leave of absence without pay for educational
purposes at an accredited school when it is related to his employment,     The Administrator of

the Department shall have the sole discretion to determine whether the requested leave of
absence is approved. The decision of the Administrator shail be final and binding. A period

of such leave shall not exceed one (1) year, but it may be renewed or extended by the

County at the request of the employee when necessary. Employees may also be granted

leaves of absence, with or without pay, for educational purposes for reasonable lengths of

time to attend conferences, seminars and other functions of a similar nature that are intended

to improve or upgrade the individual's skills or professional ability, provided that, in the sole

discretion of the County, it does not interfere with the operation of the County.


                  SECTION 7. Expenses. Upon written authorization, food, lodging and travel

expenses shall be paid pursuant to County policy to a nurse who is required by the County to
attend a conference or meeting away from home or job location upon receipt of a proper

detailed County expense form,    Changes to the previously issued written authorization

require supervisory approval. County will pay tuition and instructional material costs for

any employee required by the County to attend a regular course of instruction. The County

may continue its current practice of advancing monies to nurses who submit proper expense

forms.


Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                        17
                 SECTION 8, Bereavement Leave,       Bereavement leave shall be granted as

required by Oregon Revised Statutes. In addition, regular full-time employees shall be

allowed up to forty (40) hours for bereavement leave, to be used concurrently with leave

required under Oregon Revised Statutes, with pay at straight-time, for the purpose of

grieving the death of an employee’s family member. Regular part time employees shall have
pro-rated bereavement leave, the number of hours of which will be in direct proportion to

the percentage of the forty (40) hour work week worked by the regular part time employees
for the purpose of grieving the death of an employee's family member.      Bereavement leave

may be extended up to one (1) week if the death occurs outside the state and the employee

does in fact travel outside the state of Oregon to attend the funeral; provided however, that
the employee shail use any available accruals or be granted leave without pay to cover such

additional leave. Paid days off will be limited to the employee's scheduled workdays.

Scheduled days off wili not be changed to avoid payment of bereavement leave. Should the

employee be notified on the job of such death, he/she will also get the remainder of that day
off with pay. Time off for the death of relatives not covered under the definition of family

member, or time off in addition to the days specified above, may be taken as unpaid leave

provided the employee has received the authorization from the department head. It shall be

the duty of the employee to notify the department head of a pending absence.


                 SECTION 9. Association Business.     An employee may be granted an unpaid

leave of absence in order to participate in Association business. Requests for such leave
shall be in writing and shall not be unreasonably denied by the County.   Denial of leave is

subject to the grievance process. The County has no obligation to grant more than ten (10)

calendar days off to any bargaining unit nurse in any calendar year for purposes of attending

to Association business.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       18
                SECTION 10. Educational Training.      At such time as the Oregon State

Board of Nursing adopts mandatory educational requirements for license maintenance, the

County and the Association will negotiate this Article. During these negotiations, Article

XXIV shail not apply.

                            ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK


                SECTION 1. The normal workday for regular full or part time nurses shall

consist of eight (8) consecutive hours of work, or ten (10) consecutive hours, excluding

lunch periods. Employees shall be scheduled to work on a regular work shift and each shift
shall have regular starting and ending times. The basic work week shall consist of seven (7)

consecutive days starting at 12:01 AM Sunday and ending the following Saturday at

midnight and shali normally consist of five (5) consecutive days of work, commencing on

Monday and ending on Friday.


                 SECTION 2. Each employee shall be afforded a fifteen (15) minute rest
period during the first four (4) hours of the work day and a fifteen (15) minute rest period

during the second four (4) hours of the work day.


                 SECTION 3. Each employee shall be afforded a one (1) hour lunch period

on the employee's time, which shall be scheduled as near as possible to the middle of the

work day.


                 SECTION 4. County will attempt to give an employee seven (7) days’ notice

of any work to be performed outside of the normal work day or normal work week.        If less

than 48 hours’ notice is provided, all work performed outside of the normal work day or

normal work week and within 48 hours of the employee's receipt of notice shall be

compensated at the overtime rate. This section applies to both temporary and permanent

schedule changes.


Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       19
                 SECTION 5. So that the employee can more effectively meet the health

needs of the community, he or she may, with the consent of the County, elect to work

outside of the normal work day or normal work week.     However, under this provision,

except as provided in Article 13, Section 4 of this agreement, no employee may work more

than forty (40) hours in any one (1) week.   By mutual agreement between an employee and

the individual manager, the employee will be able to work a schedule equivalent to a four

(4) day/ ten (10) hour day workweek. The employee would be paid one and one-half (1/2)

times their regular rate of pay for work performed over forty (40) hours in a week.


                 SECTION 6. The overtime provisions of this Article and of Article 13 -
Overtime shall not apply to time spent in employee-initiated travel to and from and

participation in County authorized professional training sessions. If an employee is

authorized by the County to participate in such training on the employee's regular day off,

the County shall provide an equal amount of compensatory time off.


                 SECTION 7. Travel required by the County or in relation to authorized

professional training, shall be compensated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and

County policy.

                                ARTICLE 13 - OVERTIME

                 SECTION 1. Except in an emergency, all overtime must be approved in

advance by the County. Overtime is work performed in excess of forty (40) hours in a seven

(7) consecutive day period. For those employees assigned to work a four (4) day/ ten (10)

hour work week, overtime is work performed in excess of ten (10) hours in one day or forty

(40) hours in a seven (7) consecutive day period.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       20
                 SECTION 2. Overtime as defined in section 1 shall be compensated by cash

or by time off computed at the rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times for each hour or quarter

of an hour of overtime worked, taken within the same quarter.


                 The employee may elect to take cash or compensatory time off, providing

funds remain in the department budget for payment of cash. In all cases, the employee will
have the consent of the department regarding when the compensatory time may be taken.       If

an agreement cannot be reached as to when the time may be taken, the County shall pay the

employee cash.


                 SECTION 3. Call Back Time.     Any employee who has been off duty and is

called back to work to their work site location outside their regular work shift shal! be

compensated by cash or time off a minimum of two (2) hours at the rate of one and one-half

(1-1/2) times their normal pay.


                 SECTION 4. Flex Time.     Employees shall be paid overtime as stated in

Sections 1, 2 and 3 with the following exceptions:


                 Employees whose work assignments require work in excess of their regular

eight (8) or ten (10) hours in one day shall be granted compensatory time off (Flex Time) at

straight time which shall be taken within the twenty-six (26) week periods earned and set

forth below. To the extent possible and consistent with operational requirements such comp
time shall be taken at the convenience of the employee. If an employee fails to request

specific times off, when accrued Flex-Time hours balance exceeds twenty-four (24) hours,

or when the County is unable to accommodate the specific time(s) requested by the
employee, the County may select the dates and/or times to be taken off.     The parties

recognize that for the purpose of effectuating the Flex Time arrangements in this Article, the

parties have entered into a valid “1040 plan” pursuant to 29 USC§ 207(B). The parties

Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       21
agree that the twenty-six (26) consecutive week periods will begin on January 1 and July 1

of each year.

                                   ARTICLE 14 - WAGES

                SECTION 1. Effective July 1, 2024, wage rates shail be increased by 4% as

set forth in Exhibit A, which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference and

which represents an increase in wages compared to the wages in effect on June 30, 2024.

Nurses shall receive retroactive pay from July 1, 2024 to ratification for the difference

between the nurses prior wage rate and the new wage rate for all hours compensated during
such time period.


                Effective July 1, 2025, and July 1, 2026 wages shall be increased by 4%


                 SECTION 2. A new émployee will receive a step increase at one (1) year

and yearly thereafter if job performance is acceptable.   Thereafter, employees will receive

yearly step increases if job performance is acceptable until Step 5 is reached. The
acceptability of job performance shall be determined by the employee's annual job

evaluation. In the event of an unsatisfactory evaluation, the employee will be denied the

regular step increase which would otherwise apply. In the event of such a denial, the

employee will be given five hundred twenty (520) hours of work to improve their
performance to acceptable standards.    In the event that the employee's work performance

does not improve in this five hundred twenty (520) hours of work period, the step increase

shall not be credited to the employee until such time as the next yearly step increase may be

earned.   Promotion to higher classification will be based, in part, on whether vacancies exist

in higher classifications and whether funds are available for the position. The Administrator
shall assess experience required. Employees promoted to a higher classification shall serve

the probationary period referenced in Article 2, Section 5 for that classification providing



Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       22
management the ability to evaluate acceptable job performance in the new classification.

Subject to receipt of a satisfactory performance evaluation, a promoted employee may be

eligible for a step increase and a new anniversary date upon completion of six (6) months in

the new position. If an employee's job performance is unsatisfactory, the employee shall be

returned to the job classification at the same salary step held prior to the promotion.


                 Step level at which an employee is placed in this higher classification will

provide a salary increase of not less than one (1) step above the employee's former salary. If

an employee's duties and responsibility decrease, the employee may be reduced in
classification accordingly.


                 Employees within the bargaining unit shall be hired at Step 1 of the

appropriate salary, unless a new employee is more qualified than other employees currently

employed at that rate. If a new employee is more qualified, he or she may be hired at any

rate up to the rate at which he or she is as qualified as present employees in that step. Such
qualifications may be measured by any of the following:


                 (a)        Skills required for that position.


                 (b)        Any appropriate merit tests.


                 (c)        Additional education or formal training beyond the minimum

requirement for the position appropriate for the job classification.


                 (d)        Outside nursing experience directly related to the work required

beyond the minimum required for the job classification at a rate of two (2) years for step

longevity.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                             23
                 (e)        If the employee holds any credentials required or preferred in the

classification one range above that being filled, he or she may be hired up to Step 3,

provided no one is employed in Step 1 or 2 who holds such credentials. The County may

require, upon one (1) calendar week notice at the County expense, any employee to take any
test necessary to implement this section, provided that no employee shall be required for the

purpose of this section to be tested more frequently than once every six (6) months.


                EXCEPTION:          The new hire provisions above are not applicable to any

positions established by the County under any program funded in whole or in part by
agencies outside the County and intended to provide employment or training to minority or

unemployed persons.         Employees hired under such programs may receive the same seniority

rights as other employees.


                 SECTION 3. Whenever an employee is required to assume all of the

essential duties and responsibilities in a classification above that which the employee is

classified, for two (2) working weeks or more, the employee shall be paid retroactively for

such work at the rate in which they would be entitled if he or she were promoted to Step 1 of

that position. In no case will the employee make less than an amount equal to one (1) step

above his or her current rate.


                 This section does not apply in situations where an employee is assuming the

duties of a higher classification for training purposes and where the County and the

Association have agreed to the classification change without a change in pay.


                 Section 4. Longevity Pay. Commencing on an employee’s anniversary date,

employees that are eligible for Longevity Pay will follow the schedule as outlined below.


                After ten (10) years of service, an additional one percent (1%) on base pay.


Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                           24
                After fifteen (15) years of service, an additional one and one half percent

(1.5%) on base pay.


                After twenty (20) years of service, an additional two percent (2%) on base.



                       ARTICLE 15 - HEALTH & LIFE INSURANCE


                The County agrees to make a Health and Welfare monthly premium payment

for each employee for medical; dental; and vision; benefits (G/W/L, D-5, V-4 subject to

availability from OTET). The parties agree that any contribution required by an employee

will be deducted from the employee’s paycheck.

                  Effective July 1, 2021, the County’s contribution towards medical, dental,

and vision benefits shall not exceed an average monthly composite rate of one thousand four

hundred dollars ($1,400.00) per month, per eligible employee unless and until the total

premium for medical, dental and vision benefits exceeds $1,556.00 per month.        If the

monthly premium for medical dental, and vision benefits exceeds $1,556 per month during

the term of this CBA, the County shali contribute a monthly composite rate of ninety percent

(90%) of the monthly premiums for each eligible employee.

                 SECTION 1.    Eligibility. All regular full time and regular part time

employees who are on paid status for eighty (80) or more hours per month shall be eligible

for health insurance the first (1°) day of the month following the first (1) month in which

the employee was on paid status for eighty (80) hours or more. For the purpose of this

agreement, “paid status” includes hours worked (excluding overtime) and hours the

employee was away from work on approved paid leave.


Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       25
                 SECTION 2.    Individual Health Care Account,    Effective January 1, 2008,

the County shall contribute an amount equal to 2.4% of the employee’s regular wages each

month to a tax free, tax exempt, Individual Health Care Account (i.e. voluntary employees’

beneficiary association [VEBA] account) for all regular full-time and regular part-time

employees who are on paid status for eighty (80) or more hours per month and who have

established eligibility under Section 2 above. The cost to the County of this benefit shall not

exceed an amount equal to 2.4% of the employee’s regular wages. For the purpose of this

section, an employee’s “regular wages” includes all straight time hours worked, overtime

pay, vacation pay, holiday pay, and sick leave pay.

                                  ARTICLE 16 - PENSION

                 The County shall participate in the Public Employees Retirement System.

Benefits will be provided under the Oregon Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) or

Oregon Public Service Retirement Plan (OPSRP), whichever is applicable pursuant to ORS

238 and 238 A. Effective January 1, 2008, the County shall pick up the six percent (6%)

employee contribution to PERS or OPSERP whichever is appropriate. The County shall

provide for a PERS credit for unused sick leave upon retirement under O.R.S, 237.153.


                       ARTICLE    17 - WORKERS'       COMPENSATION

                 SECTION 1. Insured Personnel. All County employees will be insured

under the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act for injuries/illnesses received while

at work for the County.

                 SECTION 2. Supplemental Insurance.     The County will maintain

Supplemental Workers’ Compensation Insurance for each employee covered by this

agreement. The insurance will be provided by the Standard Insurance Company or another



Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                      26
comparable carrier. The insurance shall supplement the amount received by the employee

from Workers' Compensation for on-the-job injuries in an amount to insure the injured

employee one hundred percent (100%) of his or her monthly net take home pay up to a

period of six (6) months.

                 SECTION 3. Long Term Disability Insurance.           The County shall maintain

insurance to cover employees in the bargaining unit for long term disabilities. Such

insurance shall supplement Workers' Compensation or Social Security for a period of five

(5) years beginning after the first six (6) months of disability at a rate of sixty percent (60%)

of base monthly pay.

                 SECTION 4. On-the-Job Injury.           Employees off work due to an on-the-job

injury and receiving Workers' Compensation benefits shali continue to accrue seniority

while off work from the beginning of the leave due to the on-the-job injury.



                            ARTICLE 18 - OTHER BENEFITS


                 SECTION 1, Bulletin Boards.        The County agrees to furnish and maintain

suitable bulletin boards in convenient places in each work area to be used by the Association

and to allow posting of all notices of the Association. The Association shall limit its posting

of notices and builetins to such bulletin boards.

                 SECTION 2. Association Representatives.          Accredited representatives of the

Association, upon reasonable and proper introduction, shall have reasonable access to the

premises of the County at any time during working hours to examine work conditions,

provided that such visits shall not interfere with or cause neglect of employees' work.

                 SECTION 3. Transportation. If the County provides employees with

vehicles, it will assume responsibility for maintaining and cleaning such vehicles. Vehicles

will be maintained in safe working condition by the County. Any unsafe condition coming


Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                           27
to the attention of the employee shall be reported in writing to the County, and the County
shall restore the vehicle to a safe and healthful condition as soon as possible or shall remove

the vehicle from service. The Road Department mechanic shall make the determination as to

the safe and healthful condition of any County vehicle. No employee shall be required to
operate a vehicle which has been reported as unsafe or unhealthy.


                    An employee whose job requires driving from home to a job location or

locations other than the Health Department office and back home in his or her vehicle shall!

receive the County designated rates per mile for all such travel. Such mileage

reimbursement shail also be paid for all miles driven in response to County business,

including travel between job locations or Health Department offices when a County vehicle
is not available.


                    SECTION 4. Tuition Reimbursement.     The County may reimburse an
employee for the cost of tuition, to a maximum of six (6) course hours in a calendar year, for

any course taken on the employee's own time and which is related to his or her position and

will result in professional improvement. The determination of whether the course is related

to an employee's position shall be made by the Administrator, whose decision shail be final

and binding. A denial of the request may be subject to the grievance procedure.      Such denial

shall not be made in an arbitrary or capricious manner.    Reimbursement will be made only if

the employee is able to obtain a grade of "C" or better in the course, if grades, or a "pass" if

the course carries no grade.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                         28
                  SECTION 5. Flu Vaccinations/Pandemic Vaccinations.         The County shall

         make appropriate and timely FLU/Pandemic vaccines at no cost to direct care staff.


                       ARTICLE 19 - ADJUDICATION OF RIGHTS

                Adjudication of a dispute concerning a regular employee's rights which are

granted by this Agreement shall be accomplished as follows:


                STEP1. Within seven (7) calendar days of the occurrence of the matters

causing the dispute, or if the employee is unaware of such matters at the time, then within
seven (7) calendar days after the employee becomes cognizant of such matters, the
employee shall present the dispute to his supervisor in writing. The writing shall state the

nature of the dispute, the provisions of the contract which grants the affected right and the

remedy requested.


                STEP2. If the dispute is not settled within seven (7) calendar days of the

presentation to the supervisor, the dispute may be presented to the department head or his
designee within an additional seven (7) calendar days. The department head, or his designee,

and such representatives as he may select shall meet promptly with the employee and the

employee's representative to attempt to settle the dispute.

                STEP3. If the dispute is not settled within fourteen (14) calendar days of its

presentation to the department head, the dispute may be submitted to the Board of County

Commissioners or their designee within fourteen (14) calendar days thereafter.     The Board

of County Commissioners or their designee shall consider the matter and shall issue a

decision within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date that the dispute is submitted to them.


                 STEP 4. If the employee is dissatisfied with the decision he may, within

twenty-eight (28) calendar days of the date of the submission of the dispute to the Board of


Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       29
County Commissioners, serve notice of his intention to arbitrate the dispute. Such notice
shall be in writing and delivered to the Board of Commissioners,


                After the dispute has been so submitted, the parties, or their representatives,

shall jointly request Employment Relations Board for a list of the names of five (5)

arbitrators. The parties shall select an arbitrator from the list by such method as they may

jointly elect or, if they are unable to agree, then by the method of alternative striking of

names under which the employee shall strike the first name objectionable to him and the

County shall strike a name objectionable to it. The final name left on the list shall be the

arbitrator. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the parties from agreeing upon a permanent
arbitrator or permanent list. The arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding, but he shall

have no power to alter, modify, add to or detract from the terms of this agreement.     His

decision shall be within the scope and terms of this agreement and in writing. The arbitrator

shall be asked but not required to submit his award within twenty-one (21) calendar days

from the close of the hearing.   His decision may also provide retroactivity not exceeding

forty-two (42) calendar days. The County and the Association shall equally divide the

compensation of the arbitrator's fee, the cost of any hearing room and the cost of shorthand

reports, if mutually agreed to, unless such are paid by the State of Oregon.



                            ARTICLE 20 - SPECIAL CONFERENCES


                 Special conferences for important matters may be arranged between

designated representatives of the Association and the County upon request of either party.

The matters to be discussed at such a conference shall be proposed at the time the
conference is requested. Two (2) Association representatives may participate in such

conferences without loss of pay.



Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                        30
                      ARTICLE 21 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE


                 SECTION 1. Discipline. Disciplinary action or measures shall include only

the following: oral reprimand, written reprimand, suspension without pay with notice in

writing, demotion, decision-making leave, or discharge.


                 The County shall not discipline any employee without just cause. Any

disciplinary action or measure imposed upon an employee may be processed through the

adjudication of rights procedure. If the County has reason to reprimand an employee, it

shall be done in manner that will not embarrass the employee before other employees or the
public.


                 SECTION 2. Suspension/Discharge. The employee and his Association

representative, unless the employee requests otherwise, will be immediately notified in

writing that the employee has been suspended or discharged.      Such notification shall state in

detail the nature of the alleged offense and shall include dates, locations and other

corroborative details.


                 The Association shall have the right to take up the suspension and/or
discharge at Step 3 of the Adjudication of Rights procedure.


                 SECTION 3, This article does not apply to probationary employees.


                 SECTION 4. Personnel Records and Performance Evaluations.          Personnel

Records: Pursuant to ORS 652.750: At the request of the employee the County shall provide

reasonable opportunity for the employee to inspect the employee's official personnel records

which are used or have been used to determine the employee's qualification for employment,
promotion, additional compensation or employment termination or other disciplinary action.

At the request of the employee, the County shall furnish a certified copy of such records.


Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       31
An employee may be obligated to pay any required costs of copying for such certified

records.


                Performance Evaluation: Performance evaluations shall be done on an annual

basis. The employee shall be provided with a copy of the evaluation at the time of the
evaluation.

                            ARTICLE 22 - GENERAL PROVISIONS

                 SECTION 1.     Reduction in Personnel. In case of budgetary limitations

requiring a reduction in personnel, the decision to lay off is based on performance, fitness,

seniority and program specialty.   Where otherwise equal in performance, fitness, and

program specialty, persons with the highest seniority will be retained.


                 SECTION 2. Change in Assignment.         Current employees will be given

preference in the filling of new positions. A nurse who desires a change in assignments

shall make his/her desires known in writing to the individual designated by the appropriate
department or division head who shall retain such requests for subsequent consideration

when an opening occurs. The department will post or circulate a list of job vacancies as

they occur. Where there are two (2) or more qualified employees bidding for a vacant

position, preference shall be given to the most senior.

                 SECTION 3.     Alternative Leave Accrual/Longevity.      With the prior

approval of the County and the Association, an employee returning to employment within

two (2) years of their most recent date of separation, shall be credited with their total length

of service for the purpose of determining vacation leave accrual, floating holiday accrual,

and longevity pay.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                        32
                            ARTICLE 23 - SENIORITY AND LAY OFF

                 SECTION 1. Seniority shall mean the length of continuous service with the
County.


                 SECTION 2. For the purposes of determining the length of service with the
County, the accumulation period shall commence with the most recent date of hire for

regular part time or regular full time employees.


                 Seniority shall be accumulated separately for regular part time and regular

full time employees.


                 SECTION 3. A layoffis defined as an involuntary separation from County

service. A position can be designated for layoff due to lack of work, lack of funds,

abolishment of position or for other involuntary reasons not reflecting discredit on the

employee.    A written notice of layoff stating the reasons for it shall be given at least fifteen

(15) calendar days before the effective date of layoff except in emergency situations. Layoff
rights pursuant to this article shall extend twenty-four (24) months from the date of

involuntary separation.


                 SECTION 4. In the event of lay off or a reduction in hours, employees may

then bump other employees in the following order:

                 (a)        Temporary and extra help employees

                 (b)        Probationary employees

                 (c)        The least senior part time employee in a classification

                 (d)        The least senior full time employee in a classification




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                            33
                SECTION 5. An employee subject to layoff in an affected position shall

have the right to "bump" the least senior employee in an equal or lower job classification,

subject to the following:


                (a)         The employee must have more seniority than the employee being
                            "bumped".

                (b)         The employee must have the required skills, ability and qualifications

                            to effectively perform the work of the remaining position without a

                            training period.


                (c)         If the employee bumps into a lower classification, such employee

                            shall be placed on a step on the lower pay range which represents an

                            amount closest to, but not more than, the employee's existing salary.

                            Employees who bump to an equal position shall continue at their

                            regular pay rate.


                (d)         A part time employee who is eligible to bump a full time employee or

                            an employee with more hours, must agree to work ail of the hours

                            required of the new position.



                ©)          The decision of the Administrator shall be final with respect to an

                            employee's qualifications to perform the remaining work. The
                            Administrator's decision may be challenged under the grievance

                            procedure only if made in an arbitrary or capricious manner.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                            34
                (f)         Reduction of hours is defined as a reduced work schedule. A

                            reduction in hours is not subject to bumping rights until the reduction

                            in hours has reached a level that the employee is no longer eligible for

                            County paid benefits. It is agreed that temporary, probationary and

                            extra help employees shall be laid off before a reduction in hours may
                            be implemented subject to the other provisions of this Article.


                (g)    | Areduction in work may, if mutually agreed by the County and the

                            effected employee, be accomplished by a distribution among
                            employees.


                 (h)   = The County shall determine the position(s) to be laid off or reduced in

hours. Layoffs or a reduction in hours may be accomplished by seeking volunteers.


                 SECTION 6, Employees shall have re-employment rights in the reverse

order of layoffs. Employees will be notified of re-employment opportunities by certified

mail, return receipt, sent to the last address given by the employee to the County Human

Resources Office. The employee will have five (5) calendar days from postmark date of

such notice to notify the department head of his/her intention to return on the date specified

by the County. Failure to respond timely shall! result in forfeiture of all re-employment
rights, It shall be the responsibility of the employee who has been laid off to provide the

current telephone number and address where he or she may be reached. Employees outside

the department shall not be employed for a vacancy in the unit if there is an employee on the

layoff list with the required experience and qualifications. Benefits and seniority shall not

accumulate during the layoff period.

                 SECTION 7. Seniority shall be lost for any of the following reasons:



Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                           35
                 (a)        Termination, except that permanent employees who resign their

                            position in order to accept a relief or temporary position shall have

                            their accrued seniority restored upon return to permanent status;


                 (b)        Layoff or lack of work that has continued for more than twenty-four

                            (24) consecutive months.

                            ARTICLE 24 - STRIKES AND LOCKOUTS

                 During the term of this Agreement there will be no strikes, withholding of

professional services or work slowdowns by the employees or lockouts by the County.

                       ARTICLE 25 - WARRANTY                OF AUTHORITY


                 Persons executing this Agreement on behalf of County and of the Association

hereby warrant and guarantee that they have the authority to act for, bind and collectively

bargain on the behalf of the organizations which they represent.

                             ARTICLE 26 - REPRODUCTION COSTS

                 The cost of reproducing copies of this agreement for members of the

bargaining unit and for the County will be shared through a mutual agreement between the

County and the Association.

                                ARTICLE 27 - SAVINGS CLAUSE

                 If any part of this agreement should be held unlawful or unenforceable by any

court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this agreement shall not be affected thereby

and the parties will immediately enter into collective bargaining negotiations for the purpose
of arriving at a mutually satisfactory replacement.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                            36
                       ARTICLE 28 - CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS


                 A negotiating team for the Association to include no more than two (2)

employees may attend negotiation meetings with County representative to secure renewal of

this contract without loss of pay. The County's obligation shall be to pay each representative

no more than eight (8) hours of straight time pay for each day of contract negotiations. No

pay shall be provided to Association representatives who are not members of the bargaining

unit. Employees shall only receive compensation for time actually spent in collective

bargaining with the County's collective bargaining representatives. During the collective

bargaining process, the County shali not be obligated under any circumstances to provide
more than one hundred fifty (150) hours of total straight time compensation to the
employee-representative(s) selected by the Association to participate in the collective

bargaining process. If such paid hours are exceeded before the contract bargaining process

is completed, the date, time and place for negotiation meetings shall be established by

mutual agreement between the parties. In addition, the Association shall be provided notice

and an opportunity to bargain on any County proposed changes in mandatory subjects
during the term of this Agreement.

                     ARTICLE 29 - DURATION AND TERMINATION
                 This agreement shall be effective upon execution by the parties and shall

remain in force through June 30, 2027, subject to Article XI, Section 10 of the Oregon

Constitution and the provisions of Oregon's Local Budget Law. If either party wishes to

renew or modify this agreement it shall notify the other party in writing not more than one

hundred twenty (120) calendar days or less than ninety (90) calendar days prior to the

expiration of this agreement.




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                       37
COOS COUNTY                 OREGON NURSES            ASSOCIATION

By:    ObsexI-              By:                         ‘
Title: Chg      /                      we   , om

                                  SS

                                       Labor Representative

                            Date:      Al    OS



                            HEALTH-DEPAR                IT


                            Coos Health & Wellness Director”
                                        02/19/2025
                            Date:




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027    38
                                      ONA WAGES

                                           2024-2025

                                   Effective July 1, 2024




               Pay      STEP       STEP         STEP          STEP             STEP            STEP
RANGE     |   Grade         1        2            3              4                5               6


PHN            600      5,667      5,936        6,215         6,510            6,842           7,164
                         32.6042 | 34.2462 | 35.8558          37.5577          39.4731         473308
                       $ 66,004 | $ 71,232|  $ 74,580|      $      78,120]   $      82704;   $     85,968




Coos County/ONA 2024-2027                              39
