                             AGREEMENT BETWEEN




                                  COOS COUNTY




                                      and the




           COOS COUNTY PROSECUTING ATTORNEYS ASSOCIATION




                        July 1, 2024, through June 30, 2027




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
Table of Contents
ARTICLE 1 PREAMBLE ......... ccc           eee tere tsecatenenenesseessenersersaesentes 3

ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION ...o.... cee cee eee een nee e ees eeeseeeneeeeneeneaes 3

ARTICLE 3 ASSOCIATION SECURITY AND CHECKOFF..........0.008 3

ARTICLE 4 RIGHTS OF PARTIES .....ccccccecereereeerseteeeteersaeeseenseees 4

ARTICLE 5 DEFINITIONS ooo                   ener ererereterecscesseanerenieenseates 5

ARTICLE 6 HOLIDAYS...            cece cee eens rene nrentneeesieeeseneseseetsnetenes 7

ARTICLE 7 LEAVES OF ABSENCE... cccccccecereetenersrenssensensereaesens 8

ARTICLE 8 BAR DUES AND CONTINUING LEGAL EDUCATION........ 14

ARTICLE 9 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION oo... ecscecssetsesreesreseeees 16

ARTICLE 10 SEVERANCE PAY ........cecccceeee csenesesseetsesssnesteceeceereenes 17

ARTICLE 11 WAGES 000...         cece ceesceteetsenenereeseersserateneerssenesenssaeeaneees 17

ARTICLE 12 HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE .....                       ccc            eenteneeeees 19

ARTICLE 13 DEFERRED COMPENSATION ....0.0. ce ecscetteseteeteeereeees 21

ARTICLE 14 RETIREMENT PLANS... eect
                                  eet tecee ee tenennesenes 21

ARTICLE 15 SAVINGS CLAUSE ooo...                  cece           ree ee ieeeeeernteneeeiees 21

ARTICLE 16 TERMINATION ....00.0...0 ieee eee reer eeeteeeeer teense reeeneeaees 22




DA Contract ~ 2024 - 2027
                                  ARTICLE    1 PREAMBLE

              This Agreement is entered into by Coos County, a political subdivision of

the State of Oregon, and the Coos County District Attorney, hereinafter jointly referred

to as the County, and The Coos County Prosecuting Attorneys Association, hereinafter

referred to as the Association from July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2027.

              The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth those matters pertaining to

compensation and working conditions subject to limitations of ORS 8.610 to 8.850 as is

consistent with the County’s objective of providing services to the public of Coos

County.

                                ARTICLE 2 RECOGNITION

              The County recognizes the Association as the sole and exclusive

bargaining representative for the purpose of establishing compensation and working

conditions subject to limitations of ORS 8.610 to 8.850 for the regular full time and

regular part time classifications of Deputy District Attorney | and Deputy District Attorney

IL of Coos County, excluding ail other classifications.

               ARTICLE 3 ASSOCIATION SECURITY AND CHECKOFF

              Section 3.1 Fair Share.   The County recognizes the Association as the

sole and exclusive bargaining representative for the purpose of establishing

compensation and working conditions subject to limitations of ORS 8.610 to 8.850 for

the regular full time and regular part time classifications of Deputy District Attorney | and

Deputy District Attorney Il of Coos County, excluding all other classifications.

              Employees terminating with less than ten (10) working days in any

calendar month shall not be subject to dues deduction.



DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
              Section 3.2 Checkoff.     Each employee who, thirty (30) days after date of

hire or any date thereafter is a regular employee of the County and a member of the

bargaining unit which the Association serves as a certified agent but who is not a

member and chooses to remain not a member of the Association, and inasmuch as it is

required that the Association represents every employee within the bargaining unit,

making each employee thus a recipient of the Association’s services, it is mutually

agreed and recognized by the parties that each employee shall proportionately and

fairly share in the cost of the collective bargaining process.   Therefore, the cost per

employee is fixed proportionately at the amount of dues uniformly required by each

member of the Association, which amount shall be deducted monthly from each

Association member and each non-Association member’s compensation and remitted

monthly in the aggregate to the Treasurer of the Association.

              Section 3.3 Adjustments and indemnification.       Such uniform amounts as

the Association Treasurer certifies to the County as the monthly dues approved by the

members of the Association shall remain as the reasonable amount to be deducted

hereunder.   The County shall not be held liable for checkoff errors, but shall make

proper adjustments to the Association for errors as soon as is practicable after the error

is brought to the County's attention.

                            ARTICLE 4 RIGHTS OF PARTIES

              Section 1. Obligation of the Parties.    Both parties agree not to act in an

arbitrary or capricious manner in the application and interpretation of the terms of this

Agreement.




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                Section 2. Management Rights. The County and the District Attorney

shall retain the exclusive right to exercise the customary functions of management.

                Section 3. Employee Rights.      Employees shall have the right to form, join

and participate in the activities of employee organizations of their own choosing, for the

purpose of representation on matters of employee relations.        Employees shall also have

the right to refuse to join to participate in the activities of any employee organization.

No employee shall be interfered with, intimidated, restrained, coerced, or discriminated

against by the County or by any employee organization because of his/her exercise of

these rights.

                The provisions of this Agreement shall be applied equally to all employees

in the bargaining unit without discrimination as to age, marital status, race, color, sex,

sexual orientation, religion, national origin, disability, or any other status protected by

County policy or law. The Association shall share responsibility equaily with the County

for applying the provisions of this Agreement.      The parties agree that the labor

agreement will not serve to restrict the County’s obligation to comply with federal and

state law conceming its duty to reasonably accommodate individuals with disabilities.

                All references to employees or officers in this Agreement designate both

sexes, and wherever the male gender is used, it shall be construed to include male and

female employees.

                                  ARTICLE 5 DEFINITIONS

       “Employee” means any attorney employed by the County who fills a position in

one of the classifications listed in the article of recognition.




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
        “Family member” is defined as husband, wife, same-sex domestic partner, son,

daughter, mother, father, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law,

son-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, uncle, aunt, nephew,

niece, stepparent or stepchild of an employee, uniess otherwise provided by law.

Legally adoptive or foster parents or children of the employee are included in the
                           tt               yt,
definitions of “father,”        “mother,”         “son,” and “daughter.”

        “Probationary employee” is defined as an employee who, when initially hired,

served a probationary period consisting of six (6) months following the date of hire by

the County.

        “Probationary period” is defined as the period of time lasting six (6) months from

the date of hire of an employee by the County.

        “Promotional employee” is defined as a regular full-time or part-time employee

who, following a promotion, receives an increase in compensation.                     Promotional

employees shall not be eligible for a merit step increase until one year from the date of

promotion, and thereafter upon completion of each successive twelve (12) months of

continuous service until the employee reaches Step 12.                     Merit increases are not

automatic, and are contingent upon satisfactory job performance as determined by the

District Attorney in his sole discretion.


        “Reclassified employee” is defined as a regular full-time or part-time employee

who is reclassified from one position to another position without an increase in

compensation.       Reclassified employees are not subject to promotional probationary

status and their anniversary date for merit step increases shall not be affected by

reclassification.


DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                                   ARTICLE 6 HOLIDAYS

               Section 1. Holidays.   The following days shall be recognized and

observed as paid holidays:

A)   NEW YEAR'S DAY                         F) LABOR DAY

B) MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. DAY               G) VETERANS’ DAY

C)   PRESIDENTS’ DAY                        H) THANKSGIVING DAY

D) MEMORIAL DAY                              1!)   DAY AFTER THANKSGIVING DAY

E) INDEPENDENCE DAY                         J) CHRISTMAS DAY

                                            K) TWO FLOATING HOLIDAYS

               The two floating holidays must be taken each fiscal year and will not be

cumulative.   Employees shall be eligible for the floating holidays following completion of

the probationary period.    Regular full-time employees will be paid for eight (8) hours of

holiday pay for each of the holidays listed in Section 1 at their regular rate of pay. In

order to be eligible for holiday pay, an employee must have worked or been on paid

leave no less than eighty (80) hours in the calendar month of the holiday.     Employees

with fifteen (15) years of service with the County shall be eligible for one (1) additional

floating holiday which must be taken each fiscal year and will not be cumulative.      The

department and the employee shall schedule a mutually convenient time for observation

of the floating holidays.

               Paid holidays the Governor declares for the purpose of State or National

celebration or mourning.




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
              Section 2. Holiday During Leave.      Should an employee be on authorized

sick leave or vacation when a holiday occurs, the holiday shall not be charged against

such leave or vacation.

                             ARTICLE 7 LEAVES OF ABSENCE

              Section 1.0    Sick Leave.   Accrual and use of sick time shall be as follows:

              Section 1.1. Accrual.    Employees shalt accrue sick leave at the regular

rates of pay, and at the rate of eight (8) hours per month for each month in which he or

she works and/or is on paid leave for 80 hours or more.      Sick leave shall be prorated for

regular part time employees, or as otherwise required by law.      Employees shail accrue

sick leave when on paid leave, provided that the employee returns to work at the end of

such leave.   Sick leave shall not be accrued during an unpaid leave of absence.

Charges against accrued sick leave shall be made in one-quarter hour (15 minute)

increments.

              Section 1.2.   Maximum Accrual and Payment.        An employee may

accumulate an unlimited amount of sick leave.      Upon termination of the employee for

any reason, (excluding punitive dismissal), or death and the employee has completed

one (1) continuous year of service with the County, twenty-five (25) percent of up to

nine hundred-sixty hours (960) of accumulated unused sick leave shall be paid to the

employee at the employee's current salary rate. Any remaining accumulated sick leave

balance shall be reported to PERS if applicable.

              Section 1.3. Scope.     Sick leave may be used when an employee is ill or

injured, for medical or dental checkups, or when an employee's family member is ill or

injured, or for any other reason permitted under ORS 653.601 et seq. (i.e. “Oregon's



DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
Sick Time Law’).   Sick leave may be authorized when other relatives, not covered under

the foregoing, are seriously ill or injured if, on a case by case basis and in the sole

discretion of the County, the County finds that authorization of such leave is appropriate

and consistent with the needs of the District Attorney’s office.

              Section 1.4.   Utilization.    Regular employees are eligible for use of

accrued sick leave upon completion of one (1) month of employment.            An employee

requiring use of his sick leave shail give notice to his supervisor or department head at

the first available time, including in such notice a summary description of the difficulty

(Le., such as flu or a cold, etc.) and a prediction of the amount of leave it is anticipated

is necessary for recuperation or otherwise. An employee may be required to furnish

satisfactory evidence of illness, consistent with state and federal law.

              Section 1.5. Transfer of Sick Leave.         Employees who have exhausted

their sick and vacation leave benefits may request sick leave from other County

employees if they require extended time off for illness or injury. Employees who have

not completed one continuous year of service are not eligible for transfer of sick leave.

       Contributions of sick leave shall be limited as follows: Only employees who have

accumulated more than two hundred forty (240) hours of sick leave may make

contributions, and no employee may contribute more than forty (40) hours per year to

any other employee(s). No employee can receive more than two hundred forty (240)

hours of contributed sick leave in any one calendar year.

              Section 2.0 Vacation.         Accrual and use of vacation time shall as follows:




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
             Section 2.1     Accrual.   In order to be eligible for vacation accrual, an

employee must have worked or been on paid leave no less than eighty (80) hours in the

month. Vacation shall be prorated for part-time employees.

             Employees shall accrue vacation leave at the rates provided in the

      following schedule of continuous service:

                    (a)       Less than five (5) continuous full years of service, eight (8)

                    hours paid vacation leave for each month of service cumulative to a

                    maximum of one hundred ninety-two (192) hours. Probationary

                    employees shail not accrue vacation leave, but after completion of

                    probation, an employee’s vacation leave bank will be credited with

                    forty-eight (48) hours vacation.

                    (b)       Five (5) continuous years, but less than ten (10) continuous

                    years of service, ten (10) hours for each month of service

                    cumulative to maximum of two-hundred forty (240) hours.

                    (c)    | Ten (10) continuous years, but less than fifteen (15)

                    continuous years of service, twelve (12) hours for each month of

                    service cumulative to a maximum of two-hundred eighty-eight (288)

                    hours.

                    (d)       Fifteen (15) or more continuous years of service, but less

                    than twenty (20) continuous years of service, fourteen (14) hours

                    for each month of service, cumulative to a maximum of three

                    hundred thirty-six (336) hours.




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                                             -10
                       (e)     Twenty (20) continuous years or more, sixteen (16) hours

                       paid vacation leave for each month of service, cumulative to a

                       maximum of three hundred eighty-four (384) hours.

               Employees shail not accumulate vacation days in excess of the amounts

        indicated in paragraphs a, b, c, d and e. Whenever it appears that an employee

        will lose vacation credit because of accrual limitations, the employee and

        department head shall arrange for a mutually convenient time for vacation time to

        be taken prior to the time that such vacation time would be lost.

               Vacation time exceeding the maximum amount to be accrued shall be

        allowed only upon approval by the Department Head and when operational

        requirements within the department prevent the employee from taking vacation to

        keep his/her balance below the maximum. Vacation time that is allowed to be

        accumulated in excess of the cap shall be taken at a mutually agreeable time

        within the month following the time it is earned.

               Section 2.2.    Vacation Accrual During Leave and After Layoff.     All

authorized leave taken as a part of the employee's continuous service shall be counted

for the purpose of determining the employee's accrual rate. The employee shall accrue

vacation leave when on paid leave, provided that the employee returns to work at the

end of such leave.   Prior service of employees returning from lay off status shail be

counted for the purpose of determining the employee's accrual rate, but the time during

layoff shall not be counted.

               Section 2.3.    Termination or Death.   In the event of the termination of an

employee for any reason, including death, all accumulated vacation shall be paid to the



 DA Contract ~ 2024 - 2027
                                             -11
employee at the employee's current salary rate. An employee who is terminated for any

reason, including his death, prior to the completion of one year of continuous service,

shall not be eligible for vacation pay.

                  Section 2.4. Vacation Buy-Back.    April 1 of each year an employee may

choose to forfeit up to 40 hours of vacation in lieu of cash payment for the forfeited

vacation hours.     Payment for the forfeited vacation hours shall be computed as follows:

For each (2) hours forfeited the employee shall receive one (1) hour pay at their regular

hourly rate of pay. An Employee’s hourly rate of pay shall be calculated by dividing their

monthly salary by 173.33.

                  Section 3. Bereavement Leave.      Bereavement leave shall be granted as

 required by Oregon Revised Statutes. In addition, in the event of a death of an

employee’s family member, an employee shall be entitled to three (3) paid working days

of compassionate leave to be used concurrently with leave required under Oregon

 Revised Statutes.     Such paid leave shall extend to five (5) working days if the death

occurs outside the State of Oregon and the employee does in fact travel outside the

State of Oregon.      it shall be the responsibility of the employee to notify supervisors or

department heads of the pending leave and its approximate duration.           Other paid leave

 may be used to supplement the paid leave authorized by this Section upon approval of

the supervisor or department head.

                  Section 4. Family and Medical Leave.     Family and medical leave of

absence shall be as required by relevant state and federal statutes and County

 Personnel Policies and Procedures.       Leave in excess of that allowed by statute may be

granted by the County on a case-by-case basis.



 DA Contract -— 2024 - 2027
                                              -12
              Section 5. Association Activities.

              Section 5.1. Association Meetings.   Starting on July 1 of each year, the

County shall provide up to a total of ten (10) hours per year, per employee during work

hours for the Association to meet related to Association business.    Employees shall not

be allowed to “bank” hours; if an employee fails to use all ten (10) hours in a given year,

any unused hours shall go away on June 30 of each year, and the employee shall

accrue a new ten (10) hours on July 1. Time spent meeting outside of scheduled hours

shall not be counted against the ten (10) hours allotted to Association members.      The

Association members shail be compensated when meeting during work hours, but shall

not receive compensation for time spent meeting outside their scheduled shift.     The

Association shall establish the date, time, and place for such meetings by mutual

agreement between the Association and the District Attorney.

              Section 5.2. Contract Negotiations. Two negotiating representatives of the

Association shall be allowed time away during their duty hours to attend negotiations on

duty without loss of pay subject to the bargaining team’s primary responsibility to

respond to necessary service requirements during bargaining.      Association members

shall not receive compensation for time spent negotiating outside their scheduled shift.

The date, time, and place for negotiating sessions shall be established by mutual

agreement with the intent to reasonably avoid or minimize paid time for the

Association’s negotiating team.

              Section 6. Jury Duty; Miscellaneous Duties. An employee shail be

granted a leave of absence with pay for:




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                                           -13
       (a)     Service on one (1) jury term in any consecutive twenty-four (24) calendar

month period, provided that the salary paid to the employee for the period of absence

shall be reduced by the amount of money received as statutory juror's fees, not

including amounts received as expenses which are authorized by statute.         For any

period during the term of the jury when the Employee has been excused by the court

from service as a juror, the Employee will report immediately to his or her immediate

supervisor and shall be considered available for working during that period.

       (b)     Attendance in court in connection with an employee's officially assigned

duties, including the time going to the court and returning to his headquarters; provided

that the salary paid to him shall be reduced by an amount equal to any compensation

he may receive as statutory or expert witness fees not including amounts received as

expenses which are authorized by statute.

               (c)    Other authorized duties in connection with County business.

               Section 7. District Attorney Authorized to Adjust Work Hours.     In

recognition of the particular nature of the work of the Department of the District

Attorney, the District Attorney or the District Attorney's authorized designee may adjust

or modify the established work schedule of Association employees to meet the

particular operating requirements of the Department of the District Attorney.         In setting

the work schedule, the District Attorney may consider the particular needs of individual

employees.

             ARTICLE 8 BAR DUES AND CONTINUING LEGAL EDUCATION

               The parties agree that the regular annual Oregon State Bar dues of all

members of the Association shall be paid by the County.     The parties also agree that



DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                                          -14
the County will pay all necessary expenses for each member of the Association to

obtain Continuing Legal Education (CLE) credits sufficient to meet Oregon State Bar

requirements.        Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the County or District Attorney offer to

pay all necessary expenses for a particular CLE class for a particular member of the

Association and such member declines to attend said CLE, the County and District

Attorney will consider if training funds are available in the District Attorney's budget to

send that member to a different Oregon criminal prosecution CLE in the same calendar

year.   If funds are not available, or another Oregon criminal prosecution CLE is not

available before the end of the calendar year, that member is responsible at the

members’ expense to obtain any CLE hours during that same calendar year.               Declining

to attend a particular CLE class for a particular member in one calendar year shall in no

way disqualify the member from attending future trainings at the County and District

Attorney's expense in subsequent calendar years; provided however, the District

Attorney shall have the absolute discretion to consider an Association member’s

position in their then-current reporting period and remaining required CLE hours when

offering such future trainings. The County’s payment made pursuant to this Section is

made in recognition that:

                1)        Bar membership is a condition of employment for all employees in

                          the bargaining unit.

                2)        Employees are prohibited by statute from practicing law except as

                          Deputy District Attorneys.




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                                                 -15
              3) The Oregon State Bar imposes certain minimum CLE credit

                  requirements in order to remain an active member of the Oregon State

                  Bar.

              4) Continuing education made available to Deputy District Attorneys

                  allows prosecutors to stay current with the law, and acquire new skills

                  and techniques to better investigate and prosecute a wide variety of

                  cases.

                         ARTICLE 9 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION

              Section 1. Insured Personnel.     All County employees will be insured

under the provisions of the Oregon State Workers’ Compensation Act for injuries

received while at work for the County.

              Section 2.   Supplemental Payment.      The County shall supplement the

amount received by the employee from the State Workers’ Compensation for on-the-job

injuries in an amount to insure the injured employee one hundred (100%) percent of

his/her monthly net take home pay up to a period of six (6) months.

              Section 3. Continued Coverage.       The County shall maintain insurance to

cover employees in the bargaining unit for long-term disabilities.    Such insurance shall

supplement Workers’ Compensation or Social Security for a period of five (5) years

beginning after the first six (6) months of disability at a rate of sixty (60%) percent of

base monthly pay.

              Section 4. On-the-Job injury.     Employees off work due to an on-the-job

injury and receiving Workers’ Compensation time loss benefits shall:




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
Continue to accrue seniority while off work from the beginning of the leave due to the

on-the-job injury; Continue to receive the “normal” County-paid portion of insurance

premiums for six (6) months from the beginning of the leave due to the on-the-job injury.

                              ARTICLE 10 SEVERANCE PAY

              Any employee who has completed one (1) full year of service with the

County, and who shall be laid off, as a result of causes other than punitive dismissal,

retirement, or resignation, shall receive one of the following:

              a)      Two (2) weeks’ notice and one (1) full week of pay.

                      or,

              b)      In the event that the employee is not given two (2) weeks’ notice,

                      he/she shall receive two (2) full weeks’ pay.

              Such severance pay shall be in addition to any other accrued pay to which

the employee is entitled.

                                    ARTICLE 11 WAGES

              Section 1. Wages.

              (1) The salary schedule for bargaining unit positions shall be as set forth in

                   Attachments A, B and C to reflect the following:

                   Effective July 1, 2024, no increase in wages.

              (2) Effective July 1, 2025, all steps shall receive a 1.5 percent COLA/

                   contract increase.

              (3) Effective July 1, 2026, all steps shall receive a 1.5 percent COLA /

                   contract increase.




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                                           -17
                Section 2. Merit Increases.   Upon completion of the initial probationary

period, an employee shall be eligible for a merit raise to the next higher step in the

salary range.    Thereafter upon completing of each successive twelve (12) months of

continuous service, an employee shall be eligibie to receive an additional merit step

raise to the next higher step in the salary range, until the employee reaches Step 12.

Merit increases are not automatic, and are contingent upon satisfactory job performance

as determined by the District Attorney in his sole discretion.   Merit increases, when

granted, shall become effective on the first of the month following the completion of the

probationary period or such twelve (12) month periods thereafter.

                Section 3. Longevity.   Employees who have been employed for five (5)

continuous years shall receive a three percent (3%) salary increase on the base at the

end of this fifth year.   Employees who have been employed for ten (10) continuous

years shall receive an additional three percent (3%) (for a total of six percent (6%))

salary increase on their base wage at the end of the tenth year.

                Section 4. Mileage Pay.   Whenever an employee is required to use his

own automobile in the performance of his duty, he shall be paid mileage at the rate paid

under County Personnel Policies. Mileage pay will not be provided for any mileage

incurred that the employee would have to provide between his home and regular place

of work each day. A regular place of work may include different specific locations on

different days. At any time, the County may, in its sole discretion, adopt policies that

under certain circumstances increase the mileage reimbursement rate(s) above $0.25

per mile, or subsequently decrease the rate(s) back to $0.25 per mile.




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                                              -18
                    ARTICLE 12 HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE

           Section 1. Health Insurance.   The County agrees to provide coverage in the

following areas:

       (a) Employee and dependent health insurance;

       (b) Employee and dependent optical;

       (c) Employee and dependent alternative care;

       (d) Employee and dependent dental.

       Effective October 1, 2024 (September qualifying hours), the County shall pay

ninety-eight percent (98%) towards health insurance costs of the monthly premium

(tiered rates) on behalf of each benefit eligible Bargaining Unit employee for health

coverage through the Oregon Educator's Benefit Board.      The employee shall be

responsible for the remaining two percent (2%) of the monthly premiums, which shail be

collected through payroll deduction (adjustment before tax). The existing rates in the

2022-2024 contract paid by the County shall be paid through September 30, 2024.


       Effective October 1, 2025 (September qualifying hours), the County shall pay

ninety-eight percent (98%) towards health insurance costs of the monthly premium

(tiered rates) on behalf of each benefit eligible Bargaining Unit employee for health

coverage through the Oregon Educator's Benefit Board.      The employee shall be

responsible for the remaining two percent (2%) of the monthly premiums, which shall be

collected through payroll deduction (adjustment before tax).


       Effective October 1, 2026 (September qualifying hours), the County shall pay

ninety-eight percent (98%) towards health insurance costs of the monthly premium


DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                                          -19
(tiered rates) on behalf of each benefit eligible Bargaining Unit employee for health

coverage through the Oregon Educator's Benefit Board.          The employee shall be

responsible for the remaining two percent (2%) of the monthly premiums, which shall be

collected through payroll deduction (adjustment before tax).


       The individual employee shail be responsible for paying any additional costs over

the applicable County contributions and the County is hereby authorized to advance

such sum(s) for the express purpose of premium payment and then to make automatic

payroll deductions from the earnings of any and all covered employees for

reimbursement to the County of any such advances.


           The County will provide employees notice of any increase or decrease in

required employee contributions for health care premiums within five (5) business days

of the County’s receipt of notice that the required employee contributions will increase

or decrease, and will timely provide information regarding alternative health care plans

with comparable benefits and coverage that may be available.

                 Section 2. Life Insurance.   The County agrees to participate in the

payment of weekly indemnity, long term disability and life insurance in the same amount

and percentage rate of the participation existing June 30, 1976.

                 Section 3. Eligibility. All regular full-time and regular part-time employees

who are on paid status for eighty (80) or more hours per month shall be eligible for

health insurance the first of the month following completion of one full calendar month of

service.

                 For the purpose of this agreement, “paid status” includes hours worked

(excluding overtime) and hours the employee was away from work on approved leave.

DA Contract ~ 2024 - 2027
                                              ~20
               Section 4. 125 Plan. The County will establish and maintain a Section

125 plan for all bargaining unit employees covered by this agreement.

                       ARTICLE 13 DEFERRED COMPENSATION

              The County shall make available to members of the Association a

deferred compensation plan.

                            ARTICLE 14 RETIREMENT PLANS

               Section 1. Miscellaneous Provisions. The County will continue to

participate in the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS). Effective January 1,

2008, the County shall pick up the six percent (6%) employee contribution to PERS or

OPSERP whichever is appropriate.

               For retirement purposes, sick leave in application to final average salary

under the terms of ORS 238.350 shail be applied to members of this bargaining unit.

               Employees who retire from the County shall be entitled to maintain their

group medical insurance benefits subject to plan eligibility requirements and timely

election and payment pursuant to ORS 243.303.

                             ARTICLE 15 SAVINGS CLAUSE

              Should any article, section, or portion of this Agreement be held unlawful

or unenforceable by an opinion of the Attorney General of the State of Oregon or by any

court of competent jurisdiction, or any administrative agency of the State of Oregon

having jurisdiction over the subject matter, such decision shall apply only to the specific

article, section or portion thereof directly specified in the decision.

               Upon the issuance of any such decision, the parties agree immediately to

negotiate a substitute, if possible, for the invalidated article, section, or portion thereof.



DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
All other portions of this Agreement, and the Agreement as a whole, shall continue

without interruption except those remaining provisions which are so essentially and

inseparably connected with, and dependent upon, the unlawful or unenforceable part

that it is apparent that such remaining provisions would not have been agreed to without

such other parts and which, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of being

executed in accordance with the intent of this Agreement.

                               ARTICLE 16 TERMINATION

               THIS AGREEMENT        shall be effective upon execution or as specified

herein and shall remain in full force and effect until June 30, 2027.   This Agreement

shall automatically reopen January 1, 2027 uniess both parties agree to continue the

contract in effect for the succeeding twelve (12) month period and shall continue this

practice each January 1 until either party wishes to modify the contract for any reason.

The parties agree to exchange their respective proposals by no later than February 1,

2027.   The contract shall remain in full force and effect during the period of negotiations.



                          SIGNATURES ON FOLLOWING PAGE




DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                                                                                                                                          L002 ~ 207 — PORUOD Yq
seog'sg     7968°S9    pSLYes      6920°19   BLL   8S   697S'9S     PSLP PS   88Zees     porr' 0s     6929   8h   Chel     oP   oszo'Sr
viele       2zpbe       z66Ob      e4s‘OL    szi‘OL     s6c'6       zer'6     6206       §=crz'e      =ooze’e     SL L‘8        EZ          Loe    iL vq Aindeg,,
SELL OS     Cer 7S     yore   7s   becyog    2699 8h    LeZ6'90     LLSE°Sb   0008 "ev   SLI ee       2698 Or     giLor 6e      CPL SE
9746      6 see6é     = sG0°6 9 orz'g «= geb'e = zp'a             «= zag'2 «= zes'2 = ves‘2         «= v80'2. Ss oba'9 = Z1.9'9             oo      Iva Ajndaq,.
  Zi          tb         OL          6          8         Z            9         $          v            c           z            b       aqvao
 dais       d3iS        d3IS       daiS       d3iS      d3lS         dalS      daiS       dalS         d3lS        dalS         dais       vd
                                                                                                                                                  v Juowyoeny
                                                                          aSbAlDU] %O
                                                                    SC0C-¥Z02 Jee, Je0sl4
                                          NOILWIDOSSV SAANHOLLV ONILNOASOYd ALNNOD SOOD
                                                                                                              L002 - 20? ~ PXNUOD YO
GOES     178899     ELIEVO      HELD       GLOT'EG    OGLELG   gBZZSG    SELES      ZOGIIS   seOE'ey   1864p     00SL'Sr
zSO'ZL   EGS'LL      ZSL‘LL     Zez‘OL     Lee‘oL     sve'6é   czs'6     Size       pés's    gps's     sez'e     oes         Loe   fy uva
                                                                                                                                     ndaq,.
BESS     LLSB'PS    OSZO'ES     BBLLIS     GLOW Gr    G99 Ly   GBE0'OP   LUGyyy     ZOPEZy   BOBr'ly   BGG0Or    cLLZ'8E
786      «69756    «= 6L'6      =bag'8   «= e9S'8    = 978     ORB'LZ    §«=90L'2   $=bbrL   O6L‘'L    §ere'9    LbZ'9       ooe   fy 4 va
                                                                                                                                     ndoq.
  ra)       bL         OL          6          8          Z        9         i]         v        &        cA         L      waved
dalS     d3lS        d3lS       daiS        daiS      d3IS     dalS      d3iS       dalS     d3iS      d3iS      dalS       Avd
                                                               {aseasoul %G"L) 9Z07-Sz0z
                              NOILVIDOSSV SAANYOLLV ONLLNOASONd ALNNOD SOOO
                                                                                                                           gq JuUSWIySenYy
                                                                                                           2202 - ¥Z07 ~ HeNUOD VG
OSLG'OL   G9BBL9    BOEESO     IE/8'Z9   Z9BP09    BETS      YEsO'9G   YBSEES    GEIsIS    EZPOOS   LL0z er   seEror
eez'zb    L9Z‘bL    pze‘bL     ses‘OL    98r‘OL    pée0'oL   ZLZ'6     ese'6     200°6     z9'8     9gse's     Gros     Loe    fy wa
                                                                                                                                 indaq.
220845    L284'SG   ZLZBEG     GPE       wOwL'OG   etEe'ey   B0ELBr    EOTI'Sy   EZES'eY   BOL tr   egsgOr    aouEEC
ozo‘oL    6996      6zeG       poO'G     L698      88e'8     OOL'8     Zze'L     9g9'2     8622     LOL        ZIB'9    o0€    hy iwa
                                                                                                                                 ndaq,.
  (43        bE       OL          6         8         Z         9         S         v        £        ra          L    aava5
daliS     ddlS      d3lS       dAalS     d3JS      d31IS     d3iS      d3lS      d3lS      dalS     d3lS       dais     Ave
                                                             {aseasouy %F"L) 4702-9202
                             NOLLVIDOSSV .SAANHOLLV ONILNOASOYd ALNNOD SOOD
                                                                                                                       O JuUSWIyIEHY
      4            7 ai                       FOR THE ASSOCIATION

                                              Lbignaturelz
     phot
nel Coypin
       (ptnissioner _
                                               ohn        Alaacw
                                              Name (Printed)
_—

       Ly         B&B Lb)     Mo   oe                SON bes
     Ade          L                           Signature

                                               “be    PAN AS: Cae
                                              Name (Printed)

                                                          7                 Up
                                              Signature ’

      R. Paul Frasier                         racer       EZ.        VV cChiol
                                              Name sPanted)            -

       Wired
      DATE
                                               df
                                              Sighature
                                                                id
                                               As io 3      i Hoyt,
                                              Name (Printed)!


                                              Signature


                                              Name (Printed)


                                              Signature


                                              Name (Printed)


                                              Signature


                                              Name (Printed)


                                              DATE




      DA Contract — 2024 - 2027
                                        -23
