                                                                                CJ 2025-0675
                                                                                 COMMISSIONERS' JOURNAL
                                                                                    COOS COUNTY, OREGON
       Coos County Filing Cover Sheet
                                                                            08/19/2025 10:39:29 AM

 eee
 FROM:           Human      Resources
                                                                            UUM
                                                                              AR A        2025-0675
          The original document will be filed, scanned, indexed and returned to your office.

                       Please file the attached document in the selected category
                       indicated in the box below using the following information:

                              Commissioner Journal Filings
         Affidavit of Publication          Ir-3y           Orders and/or Resolutions                             i=
         Board of Commissioners            —_fr-P          Payroll Resolutions                                   =
         BoPTA                             fa-ey           Registry of Offices                                   Je-ovae
   X     [Contracts & Agreements           =               Special District Budget                               Jeep
         County Budget                     =               SPeEclal DISCTICE saaaes xem osnsnon eccenets         =
         County Code                       fe-P           Vacation Proceedings                                   Jaae
         Minutes ~- BOC                    =               R=Retention P=Permanent Y=Year AE=After Expiration

                                 INDEXING INFORMATION

 Affected Parties Names:
      Coos Health & Wellness; AFSCME (American Federation of State, County
      and Municipal Employees) Union




 Subject of Document:                 — Brief.description, minutes, contracts, orders, etc.
         Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) July 1, 2025 - June 30, 2028



 Resolution or Order #:                   Example:     °18-2-156-X

 Document          Remarks:
         CBA Agreement with AFSCME 7/1/25 - 6/30/28




 Date of Meeting or of Document:                           "Date Only"
                                                                                                      August 15, 2025
clerk use-    Filed:           Scanned:     Indexed:        Verified:                                                      |
                        COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT




                                      BETWEEN




                                 _ COOS COUNTY


                                          and




                                AFSCME LOCAL 2936




                                    COURTHOUSE




                              July 1, 2025 — June 30, 2028




AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                        Page I
PREAMBLE ........ccescccsceecenereenerersesenesesssssseneresseeasstesssseesscscsesennereeeeees 3

ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION ..... ccc                 ee cece eeeeeneesererneeeneesinerteniaeeees 3

ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS .....ccccccccestssseceseesseesessesceseesnensnscesneesnrersaesegs 4

ARTICLE 3 - RIGHTS OF PARTIES .....ccecccssesesssseceseccsesecseseessaesneesaeraes 6

ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF ....ccce                                         eer         6

ARTICLE 5 - HOURS OF WORK 1...                                  cca ene eetcceeeteneeesnrneeeres 8

ARTICLE 6 - HOLIDAYS             oo. ceceeeceteeneereerteerseesneeeereeentesseseeeseneaeiiees 12

ARTICLE 7 - SICK LEAVE .....ccceecccsecseesseerseerseestseessereeneraseseeeseaneenieees 13

ARTICLE 8 - VACATION LEAVE ......cccccscccceeseetegeesesetneeteseeeeneeasiieens 15

ARTICLE 9 - OTHER LEAVES .......cccccccssecseesee
                                     esses seeenseteaseeeeseneetiieees 17

ARTICLE 10 - SEVERANCE PAY ......ccecccsesseerserrsseerserennecnseeeserseaneenaeees 19

ARTICLE 11 - INSURANCE 00.0... cccecccet esse eeeeeeneesseseeseeneecseseeeneenneesneeers 19

ARTICLE 12 - WAGES ooo... ceccecceec een eetee cee enan eae eeseeeseneseeseeeeeteneseneeen 22

ARTICLE 13 - RETIREMENT .......00cccccecscsseeseseeeeesseeseeeseeseseeneessneasiaaes 26

ARTICLE 14 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE                          ......sccceseeccstesseeseeteeentees 26

ARTICLE 15 - SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES ........cccccecceesceeecenreee
                                                              etnies 28

ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY ooo... cccecscecesceesseeeserseeerseeeseresaessaeessensnsensees 31

ARTICLE 17 — DISCRIMINATION AND BULLYING.........0...0:ccceseseee 39

ARTICLE 18 - UNION BUSINESS...                      ccc ccseceeeeeeee
                                                              serene nreeseesnenaiees 40

ARTICLE 19 - EXISTING CONDITIONS ...........ccscccsserteretsees ce eeeeeeeeeeseneeees 4

ARTICLE 20 - SAFETY oo.               ccceccce cet teereee sere eernereeseceseassaesseesaeseneess 41

ARTICLE 21 - WORKERS’              COMPENSATION              .......ceccccscesestssssesertteneeeeaes 42

ARTICLE 22 - PERSONNEL RECORDS... cccccesecesereeceneeneessseeeeneenneensnes 43

ARTICLE 23 ~ CONTRACTING OUT 0... ccceeccesesceseeseeeereesesseseenesanseeaes 45

ARTICLE 24 - REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION .......ccccscstesseerserereesssaes 45

ARTICLE 25 - SAVINGS CLAUSE......cccccccesssesteeeteeeerneetieestseesneennanenanes 46

ARTICLE 26 — SIDE AGREEMENTS                    .......c:ccceesssseseerseeesneesseesseeesneentaneeaaes 47

ARTICLE 27 - TERMINATION ......ccccceessescetceeseneeeeteetecneeeteesseeeseeeninessanes 47




           AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                            Page 2
                                                     PREAMBLE

          This Agreement is entered into by Coos County, a political subdivision of the State of Oregon, hereinafter

referred to as the County, and Local Union No. 2936, of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal

Employees, Counsel 75, AFL-CIO, hereinafter referred to as the Union.

          This document represents the full agreement between the County and the Union. The purpose of this

Agreement is to set forth those matters pertaining to rates of pay, hours of work, fringe benefits, and other

matters pertaining to employment.


                                          ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION


                 Section 1.     The County recognizes the Union as the bargaining agent with respect to

employment relations for all regular full-time and regular part-time employees set forth in Appendix A.


                 The employees in the recognized bargaining unit described above shall be covered by the terms of

this Agreement only when such employees are working in classifications contained in this Agreement.             This

Agreement is not intended to cover any other employee classification not specifically referred to in the prior

paragraph, including supervisory, managerial, temporary, seasonal or confidential employees. Nothing in this

Agreement shall be construed to prohibit supervisors or other employees from doing work customarily performed

by employees in this bargaining unit.


                 Section 2.     New Positions.


                 Any dispute concerning bargaining unit composition shall be resolved by the Employment

Relations Board. If the County establishes a new position which is not clearly excluded from the bargaining unit

under ORS 243.650 or reclassifies an existing bargaining unit position, the County shall notify the Union in

writing seven (7) days following the action, as to whether or not it believes the classification to be within the

bargaining unit. The Union must notify the County in writing within fourteen (14) days from receipt of the

notification if it disagrees about the inclusion or exclusion of the classification in the bargaining unit or the matter

      !

            AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                      Page 3
’   becomes closed. If notice of the disagreement is received within the fourteen (14) day period, the parties shall

    meet within fourteen (14) days of the notification of disagreement to discuss the matter. If an agreement is not

    reached within thirty (30) days of the notification of disagreement, the Union may submit the matter to the

    Employment Relations Board.       Should the matter not be submitted to the Employment Relations Board within

    the specified thirty (30) day period, the matter shall be considered resolved.


                                               ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS

                    “Anniversary Date” is defined, for all employees who were hired or promoted prior to and

    including the 15th day of the month, as the first day of the month in which the employee was hired or promoted.

    For all employees who were hired or promoted after the 15th day of the month, their anniversary date shall be the

    Ist day of the following month.


                    “Days” is defined as calendar days unless otherwise specified herein.


                    "Employees" are defined as members of the bargaining unit covered by this recognition clause and

    by this Agreement.


                    “Family member” For the purposes of serious health condition leave or sick child leave, family

    member is defined as spouse, same-gender domestic partner, custodial parent, non-custodial parent, adoptive

    parent, foster parent, biological parent, step parent, parent-in-law, parent of same-gender       domestic partner,

    grandparent or grandchild of the employee, or a person with whom the employee is or was in a relationship of in

    loco parentis. It also includes the biological, adopted, foster or stepchild of an employee or the child of an

    employee's same-gender domestic partner. For the purposes of OFLA, an employee's child in any of these

    categories may be either a minor or an adult at the time serious health condition leave or leave under ORS

    659.159(1)(e) is taken.




              AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                    Page 4
    ;          "Probationary employee" is defined as a regular full-time or regular part-time employee who,

when initially hired, serves a probationary period subject to the terms set forth in Article 16, Section 4.


               “Promotional probationary employee” is defined as a regular full-time or part-time employee who,

following promotion, receives an increase in pay and shall serve a six (6) month probationary period subject to

the terms set forth in Article 16, Section 4. Their anniversary date shall be amended to one year from the date of

promotion; however, their probationary term in the new position shall be for six (6) months.


               “Reclassified employee” is defined as a regular full-time or part-time employee who is reclassified

from one position to another position without an increase in compensation. Reclassified employees are not

subject to promotional probationary status and their anniversary date shall not be affected by reclassification.


                "Regular full-time employee" is defined as an employee who is regularly scheduled to work forty

(40) hours per week for at least six (6) consecutive months.


               "Regular part-time employee" is defined as an employee who is regularly scheduled to work more

than ten (10) hours, but less than forty (40) hours, per week for at least six (6) consecutive months.


               “Relief position” is defined as a position staffed by non-bargaining unit members working to

cover temporary vacancies during the hiring process, or to cover leaves of absence or absences due to training of

bargaining unit members.    Persons covering relief positions are not included within the bargaining unit. The

County also retains the ability to use non-bargaining unit members to provide temporary higher staffing levels in

situations defined as emergencies.


                "Temporary employee" is defined as an employee hired for a specific period of time not exceeding

one thousand forty (1040) straight time hours in a calendar year.




          AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                    _     Page 5
    ;          “Temporary layoff” is defined as a reduction in number of employees that is not expected by the

County to last longer than ninety (90) days. In the event a temporary layoff lasts longer than ninety (90) days, any

affected employee may elect to have the layoff treated as a regular layoff under the terms of this Agreement.


                                      ARTICLE 3 - RIGHTS OF PARTIES

        Section 1, Obligations of the Parties. Both parties agree not to act in an arbitrary or capricious manner in

the application and interpretation of the terms of this Agreement.

        Section 2, Management Rights.     The County retains all customary and usual rights, prerogatives,

functions and authority connected with its responsibility to manage the affairs of the County. The parties agree

that matters not specifically contained in the body of this Agreement are reserved as County rights.


                             ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECK-OFF


        Section 1. Employees covered by the Agreement shall have the right to pay dues as a means to participate

in their Union through application to the Union. Application and resignation of membership shall be handled

solely by the Union.


        Section 2. The County agrees that representatives of the Union, whether local union representative,

Council representatives, or International Union Representatives, shall have access to the premises of the County

to conduct Union business.


        Section 3. Upon a new hire’s acceptance of an offer of employment to any bargaining unit position, the

County will provide the Union with notice of the new employee’s name, official start date, end date of their

probationary period, reporting location (work site), job title, work email, work number (cell and desk), work

schedule/shift, home address, home phone(cell), personal email, and date of birth.


        Section 4. Within fourteen (14) days of employment, new employees and a Union steward or designee

will be granted thirty (30) minutes of paid time for introductions and welcome to the new employee,     Within

thirty (30) days of employment a Union steward or designee and the new employee will be granted an additional

          AFSCME CBA ~—2025-2028                                                                    Page 6
thirty (30) minutes of paid time for a formal Union Orientation. Such formal orientation may be conducted in

conjunction with the employer’s New Employee Orientation and the Union will be notified at least ten (10) days

in advance of the employer’s new employee orientation. If no such orientation is conducted within the first thirty

(30) days, formal Union orientation will occur on an individual basis. Upon completion of the new employee’s

probationary period, the new employee and Union Steward or designee will be granted thirty (30) minutes of paid

time to discuss any remaining questions. When travel is necessary to conduct the formal NEO travel time shall be

considered duty time.


        Section 5, PEOPLE Voluntary Contribution. The Employer agrees to deduct on a monthly basis from the

payroll checks of employees covered by this Agreement who so request in writing voluntary contributions to the

Union’s PEOPLE fund. The Union agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Employer from any loss or

damages arising from the operation of this paragraph.


        Section 6. Dues check off


        During the life of this Agreement, the Union will notify the County periodically of individuals who have

become members of the Union. The Union shall notify the County of the current rate of dues and other

authorized deductions in a timely manner, which will enable the County to make necessary payroll deductions as

specified. The County shall deduct from the monthly paycheck of employees in the bargaining unit who have

authorized deductions, the specific amount for payment to AFSCME Council 75. The County agrees to remit the

aggregate deductions together with an itemized statement to AFSCME Council 75, by the first day succeeding

month after such deductions are made. The itemized statement will be provided electronically in an MS Excel,

comma-separated value, date interchange format symbolic link format, tab delimited or space delimited file; and

shall include:   The employee name, employee identification number or other unique identifier, date of birth,

regular hourly wage, wages earned during the relevant period, the pay period dates from which the dues are being

withheld, the amount of dues forwarded on behalf of the employee, the amount of any retroactive dues withheld

and the pay period for which they were withheld form.

           AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                   Page 7
     .    An electronic file listing new authorization or changes in authorizations for employees Union Deductions

will be submitted by the Union to the County electronically by close of business on the business day immediately

preceding the twentieth (20) of each month. The County agrees that payroll deduction authorizations submitted

within the timelines above shall be deducted from the next issued paycheck for the previous applicable pay

period,


          The County agrees to run an audit comparing the full list of all represented bargaining unit employees

with the list of employees who have authorized Union deductions as provided for electronically by the Union.

This audit shall take place at least quarterly or as mutually agreed upon in writing by both parties.



          Section 7. If the County acts in compliance with the provisions of this Article, the Union will indemnify,

defend and hold the County harmless against any claims made and against any suit instituted against the County

as a result of the County's enforcement of this Article.

          Section 8. PEOPLE Voluntary Contribution.

          Section 9. For the purpose of allowing the Union to facilitate a meeting with a newly hired employee, the

County will notify the Union of all new employee hires within ten (10) working days of their hiring date. The

Union will be allowed 30 minutes to meet with the employee(s) on work time for this presentation.


                                          ARTICLE 5 - HOURS OF WORK

          Section 1. Regular Hours. The regular hours of work each day shall be consecutive except for

interruptions for a lunch period.

          Section 2. Work Week.      The basic work week shall consist of seven (7) consecutive days starting at

12:01 AM Sunday and ending the following Saturday at midnight.

          Section 3. Work Day. Eight (8) or ten (10) hours of work, except for a lunch period interruption, shall

constitute a work day. All employees shall be scheduled to work on a regular work schedule, with regular

starting and quitting times and places, unless mutually agreed upon by the Union and the County. Behavioral



            AFSCME CBA -—2025-2028                                                                      Page 8
Health’s Mobile Response Team members shall work under the Agreement entitled Scheduling and Employment

Agreement for Mobile Response Team Employees.

       Section 4. Work Schedules. A regular work schedule shall consist of five (5) consecutive days of eight

(8) hours work followed by two (2) days off, or four (4) consecutive days of ten (10) hours work followed by

three (3) days off, or a flexible schedule. Consistent with the best interest of providing adequate and effective

service and operating requirements, all employees will work according to the written work schedule established

between the supervisor and the employee. Work schedules not established between the supervisor and the

employee shall be assigned by the supervisor. [f it is necessary that an employee's schedule be changed, the

supervisor and employee shall consult together before altering the work schedule. Requested changes from the

established work schedule can be denied for operating requirements.     Except for situations classified by the

supervisor as emergencies, where an employee is on a flexible schedule, or by mutual agreement, normal work

schedules shall not be changed unless fourteen (14) days’ notice is provided to the employee affected and to the

Union by email and voicemail. Temporary changes in work schedules necessary to meet statutory requirements

concerning the conduct of elections, the preparation of tax rolls and statements and the completion of in-field

survey duties shall not be considered as other than normal, and call-in premiums will not apply. However,

overtime and shift differential paid premiums shall apply per definition in "Wages" of this Agreement.

During the summer months (May-September) Park Rangers may be asked to work a modified work schedule. The

employee will be scheduled to work either Sunday through Thursday or Tuesday through Saturday.

       Section 5. Rest Period.   All employees' work schedules shall provide for a fifteen (15) minute rest period

during each one-half (1/2) shift. Employees who, for any reason, work beyond their regular quitting time into the

next shift may request, and shall receive if requested, a fifteen (15) minute rest period before they start work on

the next succeeding shift when it is anticipated the overtime is expected to extend a minimum of one (1) hour. In

addition, they shall be granted the regular rest periods during each additional shift. Rest periods that are not taken

during a given shift shall not be accumulated or result in additional pay. Rest periods shall be scheduled in a




          AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                       Page 9
manner which would not interrupt the efficient operation of the department, office, activity or crew.   The rest

period shall not be taken at the beginning or end of a work period or combined with a meal period.

       Section 6. Meal Periods.    County employees shall receive one (1) hour unpaid meal period during each

work shift lasting six (6) hours or more. Whenever possible, meal periods shall be scheduled at the middle of the

shift. A shorter meal period may be allowed, if by mutual written agreement between the employee and employer

the time deleted from the meal period is given to the employee at the end of that working day.

       Section 7. Clean-Up Time.     County employees shall be granted clean-up time when needed. In such

cases, the County shall provide the required facilities for the employees’ clean-up, and shall arrange work

schedules so that employees may take advantage of the provision when needed.

       Section 8. Flexible Schedules.

       It is recognized by the parties that certain positions work irregular hours in the performance of their duties



       It is also recognized that employees may be called upon to respond to caseload needs or work-related

ernergencies outside of their established work schedules. In such circumstances, the employee shall respond

immediately and take appropriate action. The employee shall consult with his/her supervisor at an appropriate

time for the rescheduling of work hours. It is agreed that time worked in excess of 40 hours per week may be

flexed hour for hour. Requests to flex the time must be approved in advance by the supervisor and will not be

unreasonably denied. Every effort will be made to flex the time in the same work week, but no later than the

following month, Should work priorities not permit the rescheduling of work hours within the following month,

the County will cash out such time at the employee’s overtime rate as provided for in Article 11. It is recognized

that for purposes of effectuating the flextime arrangements in this agreement, the parties agree to enter a valid

“1040 plan” pursuant to 29 USC §207(b).

       It is also recognized that Coos Health & Wellness staff are called upon to respond to caseload needs or

work-related emergencies outside of their established work schedules. It is agreed that said employees are on a

variable work schedule, consistent with providing the best clinical outcomes. Juvenile Justice employees may be


          AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                      Page 10
required to work hours beyond their normal work day when transporting youth to and from detention, medical

appointments, or other court mandated meetings.      In such cases, this would be considered Flex Time.

       It is also recognized that the Community Development Department does not have a budget for overtime

hours, and issues arise when an employee is unable to use flexed hours in the time frame prescribed. Therefore,

Community Development Department employees are permitted to use flexed hours beyond the required time

frame upon obtaining prior approval from his/her supervisor. Requests to use flex hours will not be unreasonably

denied. The County will not cash out such time at the employee’s overtime rate.

        Section 9.     Inclement Weather / and Other Unforeseen Delays or Closures

       A. It is the Policy of Coos County that facilities shall strive to remain open even during inclement

weather conditions.   Some County employees will need to be or remain at work even in inclement weather, to

perform essential County services. Those staffing decisions will be made by individual departments and offices

at the Department Head/Elected Official, or Director level. Ifthe Board of Commissioners or their designee

determines that a hazardous condition exists for the employees to have safe and reasonable travel to and from the

employees work location resulting in either delayed opening or early closures, employees will be paid at their

regular rate of hourly pay for the hours of the delay or the full day if the County or their department remains

closed. The County Department Head or designee will make reasonable efforts to notify Employees in the event

of any delayed opening or closure.    Employees already scheduled on approved leave during the closure event

shall continue to utilize their scheduled accrual.

        B. Should the County remain open during a weather event, but an individual is unable to safely report to

work due to the conditions at their place of residence or an employee wishes to leave early in order to arrive

home safely, the employee is encouraged to discuss the issue with their supervisor. In these cases, employees

may use leave from any leave bank of their choice to make up hours, If an employee does not have any leave in

which to draw from, they may make arrangements with their direct supervisor on how they can make up the time

or choose to be placed on leave without pay (L WOP) status for that time.




          AFSCME CBA ~-2025-2028                                                                     Page 11
        C. If the normal route of travel from the employee's residence is closed by a government entity and no

other safe route is available the employee will note that on their time sheet and refer to Section B of this article.

        Section 10. Mobile Response Team

        Behavioral Health’s Mobile Response Team members shall work under the Agreement titled Scheduling

and Employment for Mobile Response Team attached as an appendix to this CBA.




                                            ARTICLE 6 - HOLIDAYS

        Section 1. Holidays. The following days shall be recognized and observed as paid holidays:

               NEW YEAR’S DAY                          LABOR DAY

               MARTIN LUTHER KING DAY                — VETERANS’ DAY

               PRESIDENT’S DAY                         THANKSGIVING DAY

               MEMORIAL DAY                            DAY AFTER THANKSGIVING DAY

               INDEPENDENCE DAY                        CHRISTMAS DAY


Paid holidays declared by the Governor shall be limited to holidays declared for the purpose of State or National

celebration or mourning.

       After completion of the probationary period, and upon notification by the supervisor or manager that a

performance evaluation recommending the passing of probation has been completed, two floating holidays will

be granted to regular full-time employee(s). Employees with fifteen (15) years of service with the County are

eligible for one (1) additional floating holiday. The floating holidays must be taken each fiscal year and will not

be cumulative. If an employee commences work with the County after the 14" of the month, only days worked

shall count towards the 80 hours worked rule to qualify for holiday pay.

Section 2. Holiday Pay. Regular full-time employees will be paid holiday pay for each of the holidays listed in

Section 1 at their regular rate of pay and hours. In order to be eligible for holiday pay, an employee must work the

scheduled day before and the scheduled day after such holiday or be on approved paid leave, and have worked or


          AFSCME CBA -2025-2028                                                                       Page 12
been,on paid leave no less than eighty (80) hours in the calendar month of the holiday. The employee shall be paid

for holiday pay at their regular rate of pay and hours when on paid leave, provided that the employee returns to

work at the end of such leave. Paid holidays for regular part time employees shall be prorated in such a manner

that the holiday time given to part time employees will be proportional to holiday time given a full time employee

for the month in which the holiday falls. In determining the amount of holiday pay to be received, full time

employees will be considered to work 173.33 hours per month, and regular part time employees a fractional portion

thereof.     For example, if an employee regularly works an 8-hour day, their holiday pay shall be 8 hours.            [fan

employee regularly works a 10-hour day, their holiday pay shall be 10 hours.

           Section 3. Weekend Holidays. Ifa holiday shall fall on an employee’s scheduled day off, whenever

possible, as determined by the department head, the nearest succeeding or preceding work day shail be observed

as the holiday. If the Department is unable to schedule the holiday in this manner, then it shall be observed on a

day mutually agreeable to the employee and the Department.

           Section 4. Holiday During Leave.       Should an employee be on authorized sick leave or vacation when a

holiday occurs, the holiday shall not be charged against such leave or vacation.

           Section 5. Holiday Work,       If an employee works on any holiday listed above, the employee shall be paid

or granted compensatory time in addition to the employee’s holiday pay.

           (a)       For the first eight (8) hours, time and one half for all hours worked;


                     (b)    For all hours in excess of eight (8) hours, double time for all hours worked.


                                                 ARTICLE 7 - SICK LEAVE

Section 1. Accrual.        Employees shall accrue sick leave at the regular rates of pay, and at the rate of eight (8) hours

per month and pro-rated for regular part time employees. It is understood that sick leave is a benefit granted

employees for use in the event of conditions covered in Section 3 of "Sick Leave" for employees or members of

their family.       New hires may utilize accrued sick leave after their 91 day of employment.         Newly hired regular

full-time employees hired on or before the 14" of the month shall accrue 8 hours of sick leave for that month.


                 AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                      Page 13
Newly hired regular full-time employees hired on or after the 15" of the month shall accrue 4 hours of sick time

for that month, and 8 hours per month thereafter. All newly hired part time employees shall receive their prorated

portion of sick time regardless of the time of month they are hired. Sick leave, if taken by new hires prior to their

eligibility start date, shall be leave without pay.

        Section 2. Maximum Accrual and Payment.         An employee may accumulate an unlimited amount of sick

leave. Sick leave is provided by the County solely in the nature of insurance against loss of income due to the

reasons covered in Section 3 of this article. No compensation for accrued sick leave shall be provided for any

employee for any other purpose, except as provided herein. Upon termination of the employee for any reason,

(excluding punitive dismissal), or death, and the employee has completed one (1) continuous year of service,

twenty-five (25) percent of up to nine hundred-sixty hours (960) of accumulated unused sick leave credit shall be

paid, at the employee’s current salary rate, either to the employee, or in the event of their death, to their estate,

upon completion of their probationary period. In order to be eligible for sick leave accrual, an employee must

have worked or been on paid leave no less than eighty (80) hours in the month.        The employee shall accrue sick

leave when on paid leave, provided that the employee returns to work at the end of such leave.

        Section 3. Scope. Sick leave may be used when an employee is ill or injured, for medical or dental

checkups, when a family member of the employee as defined in Article 2 — “Family member” is ill or injured or

for any other reason permitted under Oregon’s Sick Time Act. Sick leave may be authorized by the County when

relatives outside the definition of “family member” are seriously ill or injured, if the County finds that such

compassionate leave is appropriate. The County agrees to follow State and Federal laws regarding the concurrent

use of sick leave for family and medical leave.

        Section 4. Utilization, An employee requiring use of their sick leave shall give notice to their supervisor

or department head at the first available time, including in such notice a summary description of the difficulty

(ie., such as flu or a cold, etc.) and a prediction of the amount of leave it is anticipated is necessary for

recuperation or otherwise. An employee may be required to furnish satisfactory evidence of illness, consistent

with state and federal law.


          AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                         Page 14
         Section 5. Sick Leave Abuse.      There is no presumption of sick leave abuse, and it is presumed that

employees in the bargaining unit will always endeavor to maintain the highest standards of personal and official

integrity.

         Section 6. Transfer of Sick Leave. Employees who have exhausted their sick and vacation leave benefits

may request sick leave from other County employees if they require extended time off for illness or injury.

Employees who have not completed one continuous year of service are not eligible for transfer of sick leave.

         Contributions of sick leave shall be limited as follows: Only employees with one (1) year's service who

have accumulated more than two hundred forty (240) hours of sick leave may make contributions, and no

employee may contribute more than forty (40) hours per year to any other employee. No employee can receive

more than two hundred forty (240) hours of contributed sick leave in any one calendar year.


                                          ARTICLE 8 - VACATION LEAVE

         Section 1. Accrual.     Employees shal] accrue vacation leave at the rates provided on the following

schedule of continuous service:

         (a)       Less than five (5) continuous full years of service, eight (8) hours paid vacation leave for each

month of service cumulative to a maximum of one hundred ninety-two (192) hours. Probationary employees shall

accrue vacation leave, but shall not be eligible to use said vacation leave until completion of six (6) months of

work.

         (b)       Five (5) continuous years, but less than ten (10) continuous years of service, ten (10) hours for

each month of service cumulative to maximum of two-hundred forty (240) hours.

         (c)       Ten (10) continnous years, but less than fifteen (15) continuous years of service, twelve (12) hours

for each month of service cumulative to a maximum of two-hundred eighty-eight (288) hours.

         (d)       Fifteen (15) or more continuous years of service, but less than twenty (20) continuous years of

service, fourteen (14) hours for each month of service, cumulative to a maximum of three hundred thirty-six

(336) hours.



               AFSCME CBA -2025-2028                                                                    Page 15
    .   (e)       Twenty (20) continuous years or more, sixteen (16) hours paid vacation leave for each month of

service, cumulative to a maximum of three hundred eighty-four (384) hours.

        Employees shall not accumulate vacation days in excess of the amounts indicated in paragraphs a, b, c, d

and e. On a monthly basis, employees will be informed of their vacation accrual balances in writing. Whenever it

appears that an employee will lose vacation credit because of accrual limitations, the employee and department

head shall arrange for a mutually convenient time for vacation time to be taken prior to the time that such

vacation time would be lost.

        Vacation time exceeding the maximum amount to be accrued shall be allowed upon approval by the

Department Head when operational requirements within the department prevent the employee from taking

vacation to keep their balance below the maximum. Vacation time which is allowed to be accumulated in excess

of the cap shall be taken at a mutually agreeable time within the month following the time it is earned.

        Vacation shall be prorated for part-time employees.


        All newly hired regular full-time employees hired on or before the 14" of the month shall accrue 8 hours

vacation leave for that month. Newly hired regular full-time employees hired on or after the 15" of the month

shall accrue 4 hours vacation time for that month, and 8 hours per month thereafter. Part time employees shall

have their vacation accruals pro-rated accordingly.   All regular full time employees terminating employment on

or before the 15" of the month shall only accrue 50% of their vacation time for the month.

        Section 2. Vacation Accrual During Leave and After Layoff.

All authorized leave taken as a part of the employee's continuous service shall be counted for the purpose of

determining the employee's accrual rate. The employee shall accrue vacation leave when on paid leave, provided

that the employee returns to work at the end of such leave. In order to be eligible for vacation accrual, an

employee must have worked or been on paid leave no less than eighty (80) hours in the month.

        Prior service of employees returning from lay off status shall be counted for the purpose of determining

the employee's accrual rate, but the time during layoff shall not be counted.



              AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                  Page 16
          Section 3. Vacation Times.     Employees shall be permitted to choose either split or entire vacation

  periods, and shall take not less than five (5) working days annually. Whenever practicable, and consistent with

  the needs of the County and the availability of vacation relief, employees shall have the right to select vacation

  times. It shall be the responsibility of supervisors annually to establish lists showing the vacation periods chosen

  by individual employees. Seniority shall prevail in the event of conflict between employees over choice of

_ vacation dates, but each employee shall be permitted to exercise their right of seniority only once annually.

          Section 4. Termination or Death. In the event of the termination of an employee for any reason, or of

  their death, all accumulated vacation credits shall be paid at the employee's current salary rate either to the

  employee or to their heirs. An employee who is terminated prior to the completion of six (6) months of service,

  or who dies before the completion of such services, shall not be eligible for vacation pay.


                                            ARTICLE 9 - OTHER LEAVES

          Section 1. Leave of Absence. After an employee has exhausted all accrued paid leaves, a leave of

  absence without pay for a limited period, not to exceed six (6) months, may be granted by the Board of

  Commissioners for any reason which the Board deems to be reasonable, and such leaves may, at the discretion of

  the Board, be renewed or extended for any period. Such leaves shall not be approved for any employee who is

  accepting other employment, except as otherwise provided in this article.

         All unpaid leaves of absence for longer than two (2) weeks will result in an adjustment of the employee's

  eligibility for salary step adjustment. (Example: If an employee is on unpaid leave for two (2) months and his/her

  anniversary date is March 1, it will be adjusted forward to May 1). Likewise, benefits shall not continue to

  accrue to an employee on unpaid leave for longer than two (2) weeks except as required by state or federal law,

  but neither shall said employee lose any benefits already accrued prior to commencement of the leave.

          Section 2. Jury Duty: Miscellaneous Duties. An employee shall be granted a leave of absence with pay

  for:

          (a)       Service on one (1) jury term in any consecutive twenty-four (24) calendar month period, provided

  that the salary paid to the employee for the period of absence shall be reduced by the amount of money received

                AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                   Page 17
as statutory juror's fees, not including amounts received as expenses which are authorized by statute. For any

period during the term of the jury when the Employee has been excused by the court from service as a juror, the

Employee will report immediately to their immediate supervisor and shall be considered available for working

during that period.

        (b)     — Attendance in court in connection with an employee's officially assigned duties, including the time

going to the court and returning to their headquarters; provided that the salary paid to him shall be reduced by an

amount equal to any compensation he may receive as statutory or expert witness fees not including amounts

received as expenses which are authorized by statute.

        (c)       Other authorized duties in connection with County business.

        (d)       Regular salary shall be allowed to those employees who are unable to report for their regular

duties because of natural disasters beyond their control; or because they are needed to work for the safety of their

family or to prevent property damage; or to help with rescue work to save life and property; said policy to be

effective only when the Board of County Commissioners has determined that an actual emergency exists, and

upon approval of the employee’s department head.


        Section 3. Bereavement Leave.       Bereavement leave wiil be granted as required under the Oregon Family

Leave Act (OFLA).       In the event of a death of an employee’s family member, an employee shall be entitled to

forty (40) hours of paid bereavement leave to be used concurrently with leave required under OFLA.        An

employee may ask for bereavement leave to be extended up to one hundred and twelve (112) hours total utilizing

their accruals, or if the employee does not have sufficient accruals, the employee may take leave without pay.

        It shall be the duty of the employee to notify the employee’s supervisor or the department head of a

pending absence and its approximate duration.

        For bereavement leave, Family member is defined as spouse, same sex domestic partner, child (biological,

adopted, foster, stepchild, or otherwise) parent, parent-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, or same-sex domestic

partner’s parent or child, sister, brother, legal dependents that live in the employee’s household, sister-in-law,

brother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law.

              AFSCME CBA ~—2025-2028                                                                 Page 18
        Section 4. Military Leave.     (1) Military leave, alternative service and Peace Corps leave shall be granted

as required by Oregon Revised Statutes and Federal law. Employees may use accrued vacation and

compensatory time for official military leave in excess of the employer-paid time provided by statute.

        Section S. Union Leave. The County shall provide a total of two hundred forty (240) hours per year

unpaid leave to be distributed by the Union amongst its members for Union business (conventions, conferences,

training, etc.), provided that use of this leave shall be approved by the Human Resources Director in writing and

not interfere with the efficient operation of the County.

        Section 6. Family Medical Leave.      Family Medical leave of absence shall be as required by relevant State

and Federal statutes and County Personnel Policies and Procedures.       An employee must use accrued sick,

vacation and compensatory time during such leave consistent with the County Personnel Policies and Procedures.

Leave in excess of that allowed by statute may be granted by the County.


                                           ARTICLE 10 - SEVERANCE PAY

        Section 1. Severance Pay.      Any employee who has completed one (1) full year of service with the

County, and who shall be laid off, as a result of causes other than temporary layoff, punitive dismissal, retirement

or resignation, shall receive one of the following:


               (a)    | Two (2) weeks’ notice and one (1) full week’s pay; or


                (b)     In the event that the employee is not given two (2) weeks’ notice, he shall receive two (2)

                        full weeks’ pay.

        Such severance pay shall be in addition to any other accrued pay to which the employee is entitled. Asa

condition of severance, an employee must be willing to enter a separation agreement releasing the County from

any and all claims or liability that might have otherwise arisen out of the employment relationship.




                                             ARTICLE 11 - INSURANCE

        Section 1. Health Insurance.

          AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                       Page 19
        The County agrees to provide coverage in the following areas:

        (a)     | employee and dependents health insurance

        (b)     — employee and dependents optical

        (c)       employee and dependents prescription drug

        (d)       employee and dependents dental

         The parties agree that any contribution required by an employee will be deducted from the employee’s

paycheck.

        The Union is currently covered by health, optical, prescription drug, and dental insurance options under

the Oregon Educators Benefits Board (OEBB). The Union agrees that it will remain covered by OEBB for a

period of six years from the date of the signing of the Amendment to AFSCME Collective Bargaining Agreement

dated June 7, 2022. This obligation shall survive the expiration of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.

        Effective October 1, 2025 (September qualifying hours), the County’s contribution towards health,

insurance per eligible employee shal! remain as follows until the end of the current OEBB plan year:

        Employee Only - $758

        Employee and Spouse - $1,412

        Employee and Children - $1,278

        Employee and Family - $1,900

        Effective October 1, 2026 (September qualifying hours), the County’s contribution towards health

insurance per eligible employee shall increase or decrease in each contribution category in proportion to the

percentage increase or decrease in the total OEBB premium for health, optical, prescription drug, and dental

insurance.

        Effective October 1, 2027 (September qualifying hours), the County’s contribution towards health

insurance per eligible employee shall increase or decrease in each contribution category in proportion to the

percentage increase or decrease in the total OEBB premium for health, optical, prescription drug, and dental

insurance.


              AFSCME CBA 2025-2028                                                                 Page 20
           In the event an employee opts out of the County provided health coverage and is able to provide proof of

           eligibility to do so, the County shall contribute $500 per month as a benefit, less applicable taxes and

           withholdings. The opt out option can only be chosen or discontinued during the open enrollment period or

           other qualifying life event. The County reserves the right to request proof of other health coverage

           annually.


           Qualified employees opting out of OEBB health coverage may elect dental or vision coverage through

           OEBB providers at their own expense, under plans the County participates in.


           This provision shall apply to all regular full time and regular part time employees who are on paid status

           for eighty (80) hours or more per month.

           Section 2, Life, Indemnity and Long-Term Disability Insurance.      The County agrees to provide

indemnity, long term disability and life insurance consistent with the levels provided prior to the execution of this

Agreement.

           Section 3. Eligibility. All regular full-time and regular part-time employees who are on paid status for

eighty (80) or more hours per month shall be eligible for health insurance the first of the following month. All

newly hired employees must work 80 hours in the first month for health insurance to commence the following

month.     Days off, unpaid holidays, and leave without pay do not qualify as working hours.

           For the purpose of this agreement, “paid status” includes hours worked (excluding overtime) and hours

the employee was away from work on approved paid leave.

           Section 4. 125 Plan. The County will establish and maintain a Section 125 plan for all bargaining unit

employees covered by this agreement.

           Section 5. The County will establish an insurance committee with the assistance of the Union to examine

insurance options and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners as to insurance plans and cost

sharing.




             AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                      Page 21
                                                ARTICLE 12 - WAGES

       Section 1. Wages. Effective January 1, 2008, the County shall pick up the six percent (6%) employee

contribution to PERS or OPSRP whichever is appropriate.


        1,       Effective July 1, 2025, or if this Contract is ratified at a later date, retroactive to July 1, 2025,

                 wages shall be increased by 2.4% over previous rates of pay at all steps except for the following
                 paygrades, which shall receive no raise: 432, 443, 447, 453, 454, 455, 456, 458, and 459.

        2.       Effective July 1, 2026, wages shall be increased by a range of 2%-3% based on the annual CPI-U

                 Western Region December 2025 (12-month average) for all steps.

        3.       Effective July 1, 2027, wages shall be increased by a range of 2%-3% based on the annual CPI-U

                 Western Region December 2026 (12-month average) for all steps.

       Section 2. Pay Periods. Salaries and wages of employees shall be paid on a monthly basis. Paychecks

will be issued by the 30th day of the month worked. In the event that the 30th day of the month worked shall fall

on a Saturday or a Sunday the preceding Friday shall be payday. Should the 30th day of the month worked fall

on a holiday, the preceding workday shall be payday. Failure to receive pay on the designated day for any reason

beyond the control of the County shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement.

       Employees shall be notified of the reason for any delay in the designated payday. The above provisions

may be changed should the County elect to purchase or otherwise adopt a different payroll plan, whether from a

private company or other public body including itself, but the employees will not be paid less than monthly.

       Section 3. Shift Differential. In addition to the established wage rates, the County shall pay an hourly

premium of ten (10) cents to employees for all hours of work on shifts beginning between the hours of 2:00 P.M.

and 9:59 P.M. Employees working any shift beginning between 10:00 P.M. and 5:59 A.M. shall be paid an

hourly premium of fifteen (15) cents for each hour worked.


                 Section 4, Call Back Time. Any employee, other than Mobile Response Team (MRT) and Juvenile

Department employees. called to work on any day other than their regularly scheduled work day shall be paid for

a minimum of two (2) hours at the rate of one and one half (1-1/2) times their regular rate of pay. Any employee

             AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                         Page 22
who. has been off duty, and is called back to work outside their regular work shift shall be paid for a minimum of

two (2) hours at the rate of one and one half (1-1/2) times their normal rate of pay. Behavioral Health employees

performing on-call duties will be paid at a rate of one and one half (1-1/2) times their regular rate of pay for each

telephone consultation with a minimum duration of 10 minutes and with a 2-hour minimum where they present

themselves in person to address an urgent or emergent mental health occurrence within the community.           This pay

is in addition to the Standby Rate specified in Article 12 Section 12.     Juvenile Department employees who are

called back to work for out of county transports shall be paid at a rate of one and one -half (1-1/2) times their

normal rate of pay for a minimum of 4- hours. This pay is in addition to the Standby Rate specified in Article 12

Section 12.

         Section 5. Reporting Time. Any employee who is regularly scheduled to work and who presents himself

for work as regularly scheduled but where work is not available for him and is excused from duty shall be paid

for a minimum of one half (1/2) the number of hours he was scheduled to work.

         Section 6. Overtime.   Employees shall be paid or receive compensatory time off (at their option) at the

rate of one hour and a half (1-1/2) for every hour of work beyond their normal eight hours (8) or ten hours (10) in

their forty (40) hour work week, except as otherwise provided in Article 5, Section 8. Paid time off shall not

count toward hours worked for purposes of overtime eligibility.

         Comp time shall not accrue for more than forty (40) hours; any amount in excess thereof shall be paid as

overtime on the next pay period. If compensatory time is taken, it should, whenever possible, be taken in the

same pay period as earned. The parties agree that the scheduling of compensatory time off must be done at a

time that is mutually agreeable between the parties. The parties agree that a request for compensatory time off is

unduly burdensome, and may be rejected by the County, if it would result in additional overtime to cover the

shift.

         Section 7. Exceptions. Employees shal! be paid time and one half (1-1/2) or compensatory time for all

work performed on the sixth (6th) and seventh (7th) day of their regular work schedule.




           AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                     Page 23
           Section 8. Distribution. Overtime work shall be distributed equally to employees within the same job

classification in each department or district. Employees must be qualified to perform work in which overtime is

offered.

           Overtime work shall be voluntary except when the public health, safety or welfare may be jeopardized

and when overtime work is necessary to ensure compliance with statutory requirements, obligations, or the,

continued efficient operation of the County.

           An employee who refuses to work overtime when requested to do so pursuant to this requirement of this

section may be subject to discipline or discharge. There shall be no discrimination against an employee who

declines to work overtime except as may be required in this section. In assigning overtime work, the supervisor

may consider circumstances which would cause such an assignment to be a burden upon the employee, such as

child care issues.

           Section 9. Mileage Pay. Whenever an employee is required to use the employee’s own automobile in the

performance of their duty, the employee shall be paid mileage at the GSA rates published on

www.gsa.cov/mileage at the time of travel. Mileage pay will not be provided for any mileage incurred that the

employee would have to provide between their home and regular place of work each day. A regular place of

work may include different specific locations on different days. If the employee does not have a regular place of

work, and there are no County cars available, the employee will be paid mileage to and from the employee’s

various places of work less mileage from their home to the nearest County building, annex or courthouse.

           Section 10. New Hires,   Employees within the bargaining unit shall be hired at Step 1 of the appropriate

salary, unless the rules under the Pay Equity Law apply, a new employee is more qualified than other employees

currently employed at that rate or the economic circumstances make it difficult to hire a qualified employee at the

lowest step. If a new employee is more qualified, he or she may be hired at any step up to the step in which he or

she is as qualified as present employees in that step.

           Section 11. Step Raises. Upon satisfactory completion of the initial probationary period, which shall

serve as an employee’s anniversary date, an employee shall be eligible for a merit raise to the next higher step in


             AFSCME CBA ~-2025-2028                                                                   Page 24
.   the salary range. On each anniversary date thereafter, the employee shall be eligible to receive an additional merit

    step raise to the next step until the employee reaches Step 5. These increases are not automatic and depend upon

    satisfactory job performance, An eligible employee not receiving a step increase shall be afforded written

    notification including a description of deficiencies noted and specific recommendations for improvement, and the

    Union shall also be notified of any and all denials of step increases.


                     Section 12.   Standby Duty. The County may require any employee to serve standby duty whenever

    such duty is necessary to further the public health, safety or welfare of the County, or when needed to fulfill the

    statutory obligations of the County, provided that such duty is rotated among employees as determined by the

    County.     Employees on standby duty are those who must be available to the phone or other calling device at all

    times during the designated period.    Employees on standby duty shall be responsible to perform all assignments

    and respond to all calls as may be required of the duty. Employees on standby duty must be available to the phone

    or other calling device at all times during the designated period and are required to respond to the specific needs of

    the County.      During this time the Employees        freedom to engage in personal activities is sufficiently and

    geographically restricted.

              In addition to any payment that is made for hours worked, employees shall receive compensation at a rate

    of one (1) hour for eight (8) hours of standby time. With the approval of the Department Head, such

    compensation may be in the form of time off. If compensation is to be time off, the County may select when it

    shall be taken provided that they shall not accrue more than forty (40) hours. Employees assigned to standby time

    shall not receive any additional compensation or be eligible for call-in duty, or receive any compensation under

    this section for any period of time during the employee’s regular work schedule. A pager or phone shall be

    provided by the County for all such employees.

              Section 13. Working Out of Classification.    Whenever an employee is required to work in a classification

    above that in which the employee is classified, for one (1) working week or more and for at least thirty percent

    (30%) of their normal working day, the employee shall be paid for such work at the rate in which he or she would




                AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                    Page 25
be entitled if he or she were promoted to Step 1 of that position. In no case will the employee make less than an

amount equal to one (1) step above their current rate.

        This section does not apply in situations where an employee is assuming the duties of a higher

classification for cross training purposes to alleviate burdens during employee absences, and where the County

and the Union have agreed to the classification change without a change in pay.

        Section 14. Reinstatement Rights. Any employee who has completed one (1) full year of service with the

County and who is laid off for causes other than punitive dismissal, and who shall return to County employment

in the same job classification within twelve (12) months, shall be reinstated to the salary range and step held at

the time of layoff.

        Section 15. Longevity. Those persons serving for ten (10) continuous years under AFSCME shall

receive a six percent (6%) longevity increase on the base salary upon reaching ten (10) years.

        Employees who have reached twenty (20) continuous years of service with the County from date of hire

will be at nine percent (9%) longevity.

        Employees who have reached twenty-five (25) years of continuous service with the County from date of

hire shall be at twelve percent (12%) total longevity applied to their base wages

        Once a longevity increase has been earned it shall not be withdrawn, except for termination or retirement.


                                          ARTICLE 13 - RETIREMENT

        The County shall participate in the Public Employees Retirement System. Benefits will be provided under      .

the Oregon Public Employees Retirement System (PERS) or Oregon Public Service Retirement Plan (OPSRP),

whichever is applicable pursuant to ORS 238 and 238(A). Upon the first of the month following ratification of

this agreement and continuing through the duration of this agreement, the county shall pick up the six (6%)

percent employee contribution to PERS or OPSRP whichever is appropriate.


                               ARTICLE 14 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE




           AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                    Page 26
        Section 1. Discipline. Disciplinary action or measures shall include only the following: oral reprimand,

written reprimand, suspension without pay, demotion, or discharge.

        Disciplinary action may be imposed upon an employee only for failing to fulfill their responsibilities as an

employee. Any disciplinary action or measure imposed upon an employee may be processed as a grievance

through the regular grievance procedure.   If the County has reason to reprimand an employee, it shall be done in

a manner that will not embarrass the employee before other employees or the public.

        Section 2. Discharge.   The County shall not suspend or discharge any employee without just cause. The

employee and their Union representative, unless the employee requests otherwise, will be immediately notified in

writing that the employee has been suspended or discharged. Such notification shall state in detail the nature of

the alleged offense and shail include dates, locations and other corroborative details.

        The union shall have the right to take up the suspension and/or discharge as a grievance at Step 3 of the

grievance procedure within fifteen (15) working days of the employee’s knowledge of its occurrence.

        An employee found to be unjustly suspended or discharged shall be reinstated with full compensation for

all lost time and with full restoration of all other rights and conditions of employment unless otherwise directed

by an arbitrator’s award.

        Section 3. Due Process. In the event the County has made a decision to discharge a regular status

employee, a written pre-dismissal notice shall be given to the employee.    Such notice shall include the known

complaint(s), facts and charges, and a statement that the employee may be dismissed.      The employee shall be

afforded an opportunity to request all substantiating documentation the County used to make its decision and an

opportunity to refute such charges or to present mitigating circumstances to the County at a time and date set

forth in the notice.

        The date for such a hearing shall not be less than seven (7) calendar days from the date the notice was

received, unless an earlier time is requested by the employee and agreed to by the County. The employee shall

be permitted to have an official Union Representative present. The County may place the employee on

Administrative Leave with pay unless otherwise mutually agreed.


           AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                    Page 27
        Section 4. Disciplinary Work Plan, When a work plan is utilized in conjunction with any step of the

disciplinary process, the employee will be allowed to review and provide input concerning the work plan before

it becomes effective. The employee may request Union representation during the development of the work plan.

The work plan shall contain the enumerated deficiency(ies), the employer’s and the employee’s responsibilities

for improvement, and definite timelines

        Section 5, Just Cause Standard. For the purpose of this Agreement, just cause shall be determined in

accordance with the following guidelines, including, but not limited to:

        1,       The employee shall have some warning of the consequences of his/her conduct unless the conduct

                 is of such a nature that no prior warning is necessary in the eyes of a reasonable person.

       2.        If a rule or order is the subject of the alleged misconduct, it must be reasonable and applied

                 evenhandedly, if appropriate;

       3.        A reasonable investigation must be conducted;

       4.        It must be determined that the employee is guilty of the alleged misconduct or act;

       5.        The discipline must be appropriate based upon the severity of the misconduct or the actual or

                 likely impact the misconduct has or would have on the County’s operations;

       6.        The employee’s past employment record shall be considered, if appropriate based upon the

                 severity of the act.


                                   ARTICLE 15 - SETTLEMENT            OF DISPUTES


       Section 1. Grievance and Arbitration Procedure. The grievance and arbitration procedure shall be limited

to the meaning, interpretation or application of this Agreement or any alleged violation of its terms. In the event

of a grievance concerning a disciplinary issue, an individual who does not wish the Union to pursue a grievance

may notify the Union in writing at any time. An employee remains free to consult with a Union representative at

any point during the disciplinary process. An employee’s exercise of the right to not pursue a grievance shall not

constitute a precedent with regard to the substance of the discipline and/or grievance in question.


             AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                     Page 28
           Section 2. Manner of Resolving Disputes.

           STEP 1. In consultation with Human Resources, a union representative may take up the grievance or

dispute with the employee's immediate supervisor within ten (10) working days of the employee's knowledge of

its occurrence. The supervisor shall then attempt to adjust the matter and respond in writing to the representative

within five (5) working days.

           STEP 2. If the grievance or dispute has not been settled, it shail be presented in writing by the Union

representative to the department head within five (5) working days after the supervisor's response is received,

with a copy to be provided to Human Resources.            In circumstances where an employee has two (2) supervisors

and one is primary and the other is secondary, the grievance shall be presented to the primary supervisor. Any

questions regarding who to present a grievance to should be submitted to the Coos County Human Resources

Department, and the Department shall respond to such requests in a timely matter. The written grievance shall

include:

           (1)     ~~ A statement of the grievance and relevant facts;

           (2)       Provision of the contract violation; and

           (3)       Remedies sought.

           The department head shall discuss the grievance with the Union representative if both parties mutually

agree. If no settlement is reached, the department head shall give their written answer to the Union within five (5)

working days following their meeting. Every effort shall be made by all parties to meet; however, if the

employee declines to meet with the department head or the department head declines to meet with the employee,

then the department head shall give the Union their written answer within ten (10) working days of their receipt

of the written grievance.

           STEP 3. If the grievance is not settled in Step 2 and the Union desires to appeal, the Union shall submit

the grievance to the Board of Commissioners within fifteen (15) working days of receipt of the department head's

answer.




                 AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                Page 29
        The Board of Commissioners will then consider the matter, within twenty (20) working days, in executive

session if the employee or Union desire, with all parties having an opportunity to appear and be heard. The

decision of the Board of Commissioners will be rendered in writing within ten (10) working days of its

presentation at the meeting.

        STEP 4. If the grievance has not been settled at Step 3, the Union may, within thirty (30) working days

after service of a written decision by the Board of Commissioners, demand arbitration.

       After the dispute has been so submitted, a party or the parties shall request from the Employment

Relations Board a list of the names of thirteen (13) Oregon/Washington arbitrators. The parties shall select an

arbitrator by mutual agreement or, if they are unable to agree, then by the method of alternate striking of names

until one person remains who will serve as the arbitrator. The party requesting arbitration shall strike the first

name, the other party shall then strike one name. The process will be repeated and the remaining person shall be

the arbitrator. The moving party will notify the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall begin taking evidence and

testimony as soon as possible after their selection.

        The arbitrator’s decision shall be final and binding, but he or she shall have no power to alter, modify, to

add or detract from the terms of this Agreement. Their decision will be subject to the preponderance of the

evidence standard. Their decision shall be within the scope and terms of this Agreement and he or she shall be

asked to submit it within thirty (0) days from the date of the hearing.

       The arbitrator shall be responsible for assessing all or a prorata share of their fees and expenses of the

proceedings against either of the parties; provided, however, that the arbitrator shall assess all of their fees and

expenses against the losing party where a single party prevails entirely. However, each party shall be responsible

for compensating its own representatives and witnesses in arbitration.      If either desires a verbatim record of the

proceedings, it may cause such a record to be made; providing, however, that it pays for the record and makes

copies available without charge to the other party and to the arbitrator.

        Section 3. Employee Representatives. Employees selected by the Union to act as Union representatives

shall be known as "stewards” or “designated representatives”.     The names of employees selected as stewards or


          AFSCME CBA ~—2025-2028                                                                        Page 30
designated representatives shall be certified in writing to the County by the Union, Nothing in this section will

limit or prohibit an employee from employing legal counsel of their choice and at their own expense. The

number of Stewards or Officers shall be limited to five (5) in any one department.


                                               ARTICLE 16 - SENIORITY

          Section 1. The County and the Union mutually recognize the need to provide for the advancement and

rights of employees according to seniority, while ensuring that each job in the County is performed most

efficiently by the most capable of qualified personnel and that such qualifications are best established, when

other objective merit factors are equal, by seniority.

          Section 2. Definition.    Unless otherwise indicated in this agreement, seniority shall be defined as total

length of service with the County.

          Section 3. Seniority List.

          (a)       Employees shall be regarded as probationary for a period consisting of no less than twelve (12)

months of work following initial employment with the County, unless extended. At the end of this probationary

period the employee's name will be placed on the seniority list. The seniority list will indicate the employee's

name, current job classification, and County seniority date. The employee's seniority date will date back to their

actual date of hire and not the first full month of service.

          (b)       A regular part-time employee shall acquire seniority in the proportion that their full work days per

calendar month bear to the total number of work days in that calendar month.

          (c)     | The employer shall post on the department bulletin boards a current seniority list showing the

continuous service of each employee. A copy of the seniority list shall be furnished to the Union when it is

posted.

          Section 4. Probationary Period. A probationary period is a period consisting of no less than twelve (12)

months of work following initial employment with the County during which an employee is required to

demonstrate by actual performance of duties, their ability, skill, desire and reliability to perform the job duties of

the position for which they are hired. An Elected Official or Department Head at their discretion may remove a

                AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                   Page 31
new employee within their department from County service at any time during the probationary period.

Employees terminated during the probationary period are not eligible for compensation for accrued vacation or

sick leave. The probationary period, at the discretion of the Elected Official or Department Head, may be

extended by mutual written agreement between the employee and the County for up to an additional six (6)

months of work as long as such notification of the extension is given to the employee and Union at least ten (10)

working days before the end of the probationary period. Such notification of extension shall specify areas of

unsatisfactory performance and specific recommendations for improvement. The Extension Agreement shall

describe the reasons for such extension. The probationary period, at the discretion of the Elected Official or

Department Head, with Board of Commissioner approval, may be shortened and the employee will receive full

rights and protection of this contract.

        Probationary employees become members of the bargaining unit after their first day of employment and

are then entitled to all the benefits and privileges of this Agreement except as specifically stated herein.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees are eligible to use vacation time after six (6) months of work.

        Section 5. Promoted Employee. A promoted employee, at the discretion of the Elected Official or

Department Head, may be demoted to the position held immediately before promotion if their performance does

not meet required work standards set by the classification within the first six (6) months of work after the

promotion and provided they have completed their initial probationary period. Employees who are promoted do

not have to re-qualify for benefits. Promoted employees retain and may, subject to the terms of this Agreement,

utilize their accrued vacation and sick time during their promotional probationary period.

        When an employee is promoted, the employee shall! be placed at a new salary step greater than the

employee’s current salary.    The Employee shall serve a six (6) month probationary period in the new position.

During this time the employee retains and may, be subject to the terms of this Agreement.


Demotion/Reclassification Downward

        An Elected Official or Department Head, may demote or reclassify an employee downward to a position

they held previously or other position that they have held in the county, only when they have documented and

          AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                       Page 32
. given a compelling reason for the demotion/downward reclassification, Their payroll anniversary date will not be

  reset as a result of demotion/reclassification downward and they may utilize accrued sick leave and vacation

  time.

          Section 6. Probation Meetings. During the probationary period and the promotional probationary period,

  the employee and the employee’s supervisor shall meet to discuss the employee’s performance.           These meetings

  shall occur at least once every three (3) months, at a mutually agreed upon time. For all such meetings, the

  employee and the employee’s supervisor shall sign a document containing information including, but not limited

  to, the following:

              1.   The date and time the meeting took place;

              2.   Aspects of the employee’s performance discussed;

              3.   Parties present at the meeting;

              4.   Specific recommendations given to the employee for improvement, if any; and

              5.   Any responsive comments from the employee. Employees shall be subject to the probationary

                   period terms of the collective bargaining agreement that was in effect at the time they were hired.

          Section 7. Forfeiture of Seniority.    Seniority shall be forfeited by voluntary resignation, discharge for just

  cause, or retirement. Upon acceptance of a position within the County outside the bargaining unit, an employee

  may freeze up to three (3) years of seniority to be credited upon return to a vacant position in the bargaining unit,

  if they return to the bargaining unit within three (3) years. An employee who has left the bargaining unit shall

  not displace any current bargaining unit member.

          Section 8. Filling of Vacancies. Whenever the County seeks to fill a vacancy within a department listed

  in "Recognition," the County shall, at least for five (5) working days, post a notice and email to County

  employees with known email addresses, the job description, qualification, preferences, requirements of the job

  and starting salary. All County employees and all former employees on layoff status, shall have the right to apply

  for the vacant position within five (5) working days of the posting. If the vacant position is with the bargaining




             AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                        Page 33
unit, and if more than one qualified employee applies for the position, the County shall provide preference for

filling that position in the following order:


                (a)     If one or more qualified employees currently employed within the department in which the

                        vacancy exists shall apply, the County shall provide preference to the employee with the

                        greatest total length of service within the department.


                ()      If no employee from the department shall apply, but one or more qualified employees with

                        the same job classification do apply, the County shall provide preference to the employee

                        with the greatest total length of service within the job description.


                (c)     Ifno employee within the department or job classification shall apply, the County shall

                        provide preference to the qualified employee currently employed or on layoff status with

                        the greatest County-wide seniority.


                @)      The County may give preference to an employee that it wishes to transfer or demote in

                        order to avoid a layoff; or for disciplinary reasons, When entering a new position in a new

                        job classification, the successful bidder will either:


                        (1) assume their duties at the same salary or


                        (2) receive a raise equivalent to one step or


                        (3) assume their new duties at a lower range and step. If bidding within the same

                        classification, the successful bidder will assume the new position at the same step and

                        range held in the former position. If bidding for a position with a classification greater than

                        the classification previously held, the successful bidder will normally enter the new

                        position at step 1 or a step resulting in at least a one-step increase in pay over the salary




           AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                        Page 34
                       previously held, When accepting a position at a lower classification, the individual will

                       assume a step figure closest to their previous salary.


                       In all cases the County shall employ the applicant with preferenced status, unless the

                       County can establish under the provisions of this article, section 9 below, that another

                       applicant, whether from within the department, County, or from without, is more qualified

                       than the applicant of preference.


                       Exception. Seniority requirements shall not be applicable to any position established by the

                       County under any program, funded in part by agencies outside County funds, intended to

                       provide employment or training to unemployed persons or other such groups.

       Notwithstanding the foregoing, when the County seeks to promote or re-classify an employee, the County

need not post a notice with the job description, qualification, preferences, requirements and starting salary.

Promotion and re-classification is within the sole discretion of the County and shall be based on qualifications

rather than seniority. In cases of equal qualifications, promotion and re-classification shall be based on seniority.

        Section 9. An applicant for a vacant position who is not the applicant of preference, (as established by

Section 8 of this article) can only be hired if the applicant is more qualified to perform the duties and

responsibilities of the position than the applicant of preference status. Any of the following criteria may be used

to determine if the applicant is more qualified.


                (a)     Skills appropriate for the position as measured by acceptable tests or standards.


                (b)    Ability to perform the job function as established by past work records.


                       Documented evidence that candidate is of exceptional quality as compared to the applicant

                        of preference. Such evidence may include, as appropriate to the position; awards, special

                        recognitions, high grade point average, etc.




          AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                       Page 35
       (d)     The meeting of "preference" standards listed in the position description of the vacant

               position.


       (e)     Additional education or training appropriate to the job description, with two (2) years of

               education or directly related job experience equaling one (1) year of seniority.


       (63)    Any requirements of federal or state grant programs funding or regulating positions

               covered by the Agreement or the need for the County to establish necessary staff

               credentials to receive such federal or state funds.


       (g)     Requirements placed on the County under federal or state law or regulation.


       (h)     The candidate of preference has any documented disciplines or on a work improvement

               plan in the previous two (2) years.


The Union may waive any of the requirements in this section at its option. The County may, at the

County's expense and time under the provisions of this Agreement, require any preferenced employee to

take any necessary tests, or provide the results of any test taken, as may be needed under the provisions of

the section; refusal to do so may result in the employee losing their preferred status.

Section 10. Other Application of Seniority. Seniority shall apply in the following cases:


        (a)    Vacation Time. Vacation shall be scheduled on the basis of seniority as provided in

                "Vacation Leave."


        (b)     Shift Preference. Whenever there is more than one shift within the same job classification

               employees shall be granted, at their request, preference of shift according to their

               respective seniority within the affected classification in the department, Changes may be

               made only when a vacancy occurs in another shift provided that the employee is qualified

               to perform the duties set forth in the job description of the position on the other shift.


  AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                        Page 36
              (c)     In the event of a layoff, the order of layoff shall be as follows:


                      (A) The County shall review position(s) being affected by the layoff and determine if there

                      are any temporary County employees working in the affected position(s) that may

                      reasonably be removed in order to lessen the effect of the layoff on bargaining unit

                      positions. The County shall review such determination with the Union upon request.


                      (B) Probationary employees who have not completed their initial probationary period shall

                      be laid off first. Those laid off probationary employees shall have a preference for

                     temporary county positions for which they qualify.


              (d)     In the event of a temporary layoff, laid off employees shall use accumulated paid time off,

                      if any, at the rate of forty (40) hours per work week in the following order of priority:


                              (A) Accrued flex time;


                              (B) Accrued compensatory time;


                              (C) Accrued floating holiday time:


                              (D) Accrued vacation time.


(e)   Layoff. If the County determines the need for a reduction in its work force, layoff notice of not less than

      two (2) weeks shall be provided the employees in positions that have been eliminated. While the County

      reserves the right to determine positions to be eliminated, layoffs within each affected job classification

      shall be determined by the County on the basis of operational needs for special occupational skills and the

      employee’s seniority within the affected classification. An employee subject to layoff in an affected

      classification shal] have the right to "bump" the least senior employee in an equal or lower classification

      subject to the following:



        AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                       Page 37
               1.      The employee must possess any necessary special occupational skills. In such instance, the

                       employee would be placed at the step in the lower range which represents an amount

                       closest to, but not more than the employee’s existing salary.


               2.      The equal or lower classification must be within the same occupational category as the

                       affected classification (i.e. clerical, custodial, accounting).


               3.      The employee must have more County wide seniority than the employee being "bumped."



       Notification of the employee’s decision to “bump” must be received by the Human Resources Department

no later than one week from the date the employee is provided with notice of layoff pursuant to section (8) (c)

above. Employees displaced by an employee exercising their right to bump shall be notified. Employees who

have received such notice must notify the Human Resources Department no later one week from the date the

employee is provided with notice of their decision to exercise their right to “bump”.

       No regular employee shall be laid off within a job classification until all probationary, temporary, and

training program employees in such classification have been terminated.

       Employees laid off shall be placed on numerical layoff lists for two (2) years and be recalled according to

such lists as openings for which they meet the minimum qualifications become available. No new employees will

be hired into classifications from which employees are laid off and for which they remain qualified.

       Employees will be notified of the open positions by personal email and certified mail, return receipt, sent

to the last address given by the employee to the County Human Resources Office. The employee will have five

(5) calendar days from the postmarked date of such notice to notify the Human Resources Director of his/her

intention to return on the date specified by the County. Failure to respond timely shall be considered as

immediate voluntary termination. Time spent on layoff status shall be considered for the purposes of the

agreement the same as leave without pay.




          AFSCME CBA -2025-2028                                                                    Page 38
                                 ARTICLE 17 — DISCRIMINATION AND BULLYING


        Section 1. No Discrimination. The County and the Union agree that equal opportunity in employment,

promotion and all other employer/employee relationships is the rule in Coos County. Nothing in this contract is

meant to hinder or in any way inhibit an equal opportunity or affirmative action program that may be adopted by

the County. Further, the provisions of this Agreement shall be applied equally to all employees in the bargaining

unit without discrimination as to age, sex, marital status, race, color, national origin, religion, disability or any

other status protected by County policy or law. The Union shall share equally with the County the responsibility

for applying this provision of the Agreement. The parties agree that the labor agreement will not serve to restrict

the County’s obligation to comply with federal and state law concerning its duty to reasonably accommodate

individuals with disabilities.

        All references to employees in this Agreement designate both sexes, and wherever the male gender is

used it shall be construed to include male and female employees.

        Section 2. No Bullying. The County and the Union do not tolerate bullying behavior from anyone.

        Whether it be:
        Employee to employee,
        Employee to manager, or
        Manager to employee.

        Bullying behavior defined: any repeated severe or pervasive verbal or physical actions that a reasonable
person would find unwelcome under the same or similar circumstances, at the place of work and/or in the course
of employment.

        If the bullying is employee-employee, the employee who is the recipient of the bullying will notify their
direct supervisor. [f the supervisor fails to act or if retaliation occurs, the Union may file a grievance at step 2.

        If the bullying is from a Manager or Supervisor, the Union may file a grievance at step 2.

        If the bullying is from the employee’s Department Head, the Union may file a grievance at step 3.




          AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                         Page 39
                                       ARTICLE 18 - UNION BUSINESS


        Section 1. County-Union Meetings. For the purpose of negotiating a collective bargaining agreement, the

County shall meet with the Union at mutually convenient times. Not more than four (4) County employees,

when possible, from separate Departments and the Union President, and serving as Union representatives will be

allowed to attend such meetings on County time with no loss of wages unless a greater number of employees is

agreed to by the County. Union representatives shall not be entitled to overtime while participating in such

meetings. All such meetings with the County normally shall be held during working hours and on County

premises. This section may not be used to disrupt County business.

        In addition to the above meetings, the County may also meet with the Union from time to time at

mutually convenient times to discuss other matters of mutual benefit or concern. Prior notice of the topics for

discussion at these meetings shall be furnished by each party to the other. At these meetings, not more than five

(5) County employees serving as Union representatives will be allowed to attend such meetings on County time

with no loss of wages unless a greater number of employees is agreed to by the County.       All other union business

shall generally occur off duty, unless otherwise approved in advance by the affected supervisors.

        Section 2. Bulletin Board.   The County agrees to furnish and maintain suitable bulletin boards in

convenient places in each department to be used by the Union. The Union shall limit its posting of notices and

bulletins to such bulletin boards.

        Section 3. Visits By Union Representatives. The County agrees that accredited representatives of the

Union, whether Local Union representatives, District Council representatives, or International Union

representatives, shall have reasonable access to the premises of the County to conduct the Union business. Union

representatives shall first report their presence to the supervisor in charge of the work area which is being visited,

whenever practicable. Such visits shall not interfere with normal operation of the department.

        Section 4. The County agrees not to interfere with rights of employees to become members of the Union,

and there shall be no discrimination, interference, restraint, or coercion by the County, or any County

representative against any employee because of the lawful Union activities.

          AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                       Page 40
                                    ARTICLE 19 - EXISTING CONDITIONS


        Section 1. All existing employment relations as defined in O.R.S. 243.650 (7) and interpreted by the

Employment Relations Board not specifically modified by this Agreement shall remain in effect at not less than

the level in effect at the time of the execution of this Agreement. The parties agree that existing conditions do

not include conditions that conflict with the provisions of this agreement, conditions that would result in

compensation not provided for in this agreement or addendums that are not expressly included and identified as

part of this agreement.

        The County agrees to provide the Union with copies of all changes to policies, procedures, and work rules

affecting the bargaining unit.


                                             ARTICLE 20 - SAFETY


        Section 1. Safety. Adequate safe equipment shall be provided for all employees. No employee shall be

expected to operate any equipment or to perform a work assignment that, in the employee's opinion, would cause

them imminent danger, and is reasonably considered to be unsafe.

        An employee who refuses to perform work for reasons of safety shall file a complaint with the Oregon

State Accident Prevention Division.

        The County is committed to provide all County employees a safe and healthy workplace in so far as

practicable.   All employees of the County are expected to comply with established safety policies and practices

and to report all unsafe working conditions. In the event an employee has reason to believe an unsafe working

condition exists, the employee is expected to fill out the County Safety Concern form as soon as practicable and

submit it to their immediate supervisor or designee. Within seven (7) days, the immediate supervisor or designee

receiving the Safety Concern shall report back to the employee the proposed resolution. If the proposed

resolution is unacceptable, the employee may submit the issue to the Department Head or designee within seven

(7) days of the immediate supervisor’s response. Within fourteen (14) days, the Department Head or designee

shall report back to the employee the proposed resolution. If the proposed resolution is unacceptable, the

           AFSCME CBA —2025-2028                                                                    Page 41
» employee may submit the issue to the Central Safety Committee within seven (7) days of the Department Head’s

  response. The Central Safety Committee shall report back to the employee the proposed resolution. ,If the

  proposed resolution is unacceptable, the employee may submit the issue to the Board of Commissioners for

  consideration within seven (7) days of the Central Safety Committee’s response. A record of any resolved safety

  issues shall be submitted to be maintained by the Central Safety Committee.

            Section 2. Uniforms and Protective Clothing. If any employee is required to wear a uniform, protective

  clothing, or any type of protective device, such protective clothing or protective device will be furnished to the

  employee by the County. Protective equipment will meet industry and OSHA standards, be the approved

  personnel safety device for the task, and will be replaced when damaged, becomes ineffective, or reaches the end

  of its effective life span.

            Section 2B. Biohazard Training, All employees who are likely to encounter biohazards in the course of

  their daily work will be trained at least annually on identification, protection, and proper cleaning and disposal of

  biohazards.

            Section 2C.   Clothing and Equipment Allowance.   On July 1", of each year, employees who work in the

  field in Trades, Maintenance, Custodial, Community Development, Surveyor, and Parks/Forest will be provided

  an allowance of $250 dollars to purchase appropriate footwear, clothing, or protective gear to be used for the

  performance of their daily work duties.


                                   ARTICLE 21 - WORKERS’          COMPENSATION

            Section 1. Insured Personnel. All County employees will be insured under the provisions of state law for

  injuries received while at work for the County.

            Section 2. Supplemental Insurance. The County shall provide insurance to supplement the amount

  received by the employee from the State Workers' Compensation for on-the-job injuries in an amount to insure

  the injured employee one hundred (100%) percent of their monthly net take home pay up to a period of six (6)

  months.




              AFSCME CBA -2025-2028                                                                    Page 42
          Section 3. Long Term Disability Insurance. The County shall maintain insurance to cover employees in

the bargaining unit for long term disabilities. Such insurance shall supplement Workers' Compensation or Social

Security for a period of five (5) years beginning after the first six (6) months of disability at a rate of sixty (60%)

percent of base monthly pay.

          Section 4, On-the-Job Injury. Employees off work due to a claim for an on-the-job injury incurred as a

result of their employment with the County and receiving Workers’ Compensation time loss benefits shall:

          a.        Continue to accrue seniority while off work from the beginning of the leave due to the on-the-job

injury:

          b.        Continue to receive the “normal” County-paid portion of insurance premiums for six (6) months

from the beginning of the leave due to the on-the-job injury.

          c.        To the extent permitted by applicable law, an employee on a short-term

disability or an employee off work as a result of a workers' compensation injury shall not accrue vacation or other

benefits during the period of such leave, unless otherwise supplementing such leave with paid time off.


                                         ARTICLE 22 - PERSONNEL RECORDS

          Section 1. Files, There shall be only one (1) official personnel file for each employee and that file shall

be maintained at the Human Resources Office. Employees may inspect the contents of their official personnel

file, except for confidential reports from previous employers, in the presence of an authorized County

representative.

          Section 2. Grievances. No grievance material shall be kept in employee personnel files after the

grievance has been resolved, except the resolution itself.

          Section 3. Signature Requirement.     No information reflecting critically upon employees shall be placed

in their personnel files without first giving the employee an opportunity to sign such material. Employees may

be required to sign such material to be placed in their personnel file provided the following disclaimer is

attached: THE EMPLOYEE’S SIGNATURE DOES NOT NECESSARILY INDICATE AGREEMENT.



               AFSCME CBA -—-2025-2028                                                                 Page 43
        If an employee is not available within a reasonable period of time to sign the material, the County may

place the material in the files provided a statement has been signed by two (2) County representatives that a copy

of the document was mailed to the employee at their address of record.

        Section 4. Written Response. If employees believe that any of the above material is incorrect or a

misrepresentation of facts, they shall be entitled to file a grievance or prepare, in writing, an explanation or

opinion regarding the adverse material. This response shall be included as part of their personnel file until the

material is removed.

        Section 5. Other Inclusions. Employees may include in their personnel files copies of any relevant

material they wish, such as letters of favorable comments, licenses, certificates, college course credits or any

other material that is job related.

        Section 6. Critical Materials

        At any time after the lapse of three (3) years from the date of disciplinary action, an employee may

request the removal of said disciplinary material from their personnel file. The request must be submitted in

writing and sent to the employee’s Union representative and the County’s Human Resources Department.               The

written request must include a statement of the disciplinary material desired to be removed from the personnel

file.

        The County shall issue a written response within ten (10) working days of receiving the request. The

response shall be sent to the employee and Union representative and shall indicate whether the request is

approved or denied. If denied, the reasons for the denial must be stated. The employee may appeal a denied

request; however, any appeal must be received within ten (10) working days from the date the denial was issued.

The appeal must be in writing and submitted to the employee’s Union representative and Board of

Commissioners.     The Board of Commissioners will then consider the matter within twenty (20) working days, in

executive session if the employee or Union desire, with all parties having an opportunity to be heard. The

decision of the Board of Commissioners will be rendered within ten (10) working days of the hearing. Any

decision made by the Board of Commissioners shall be final.


           AFSCME CBA -2025-2028                                                                      Page 44
         An employee may re-request the removal of disciplinary material from their personnel file no sooner than

one (1) year from the date of the final resolution of the previous request.

        Notwithstanding the foregoing, the County reserves the right to remove, at its sole discretion, disciplinary

materiai from an employce’s personnel file at any time and will notify the employee and the Union

representative.


                                           ARTICLE 23 ~ CONTRACTING               OUT

        For the purpose of this Article, effects bargaining shall only be required if the decision to contract out work wili

create a layoff or demotion of current bargaining unit employees. In the event of a bona fide emergency, notice may be less

than thirty (30) days.

         The Union recognizes that the County has the management right, during the term of this Agreement, to decide to

contract out work performed by bargaining unit members. If contracting work out will result in the layoff or demotion of

current bargaining unit employees, the County shall notify the Union in writing no {ess than thirty (30) days prior to the

issuance of any request for proposals, consideration of proposals, or direct negotiations (in the absence of proposals) to

contract out work presently and regularly performed by bargaining unit employees.



         The Union shall have twenty (20) days from the receipt of the notice to request bargaining over the impact of the

proposed contracting out on the affected employee(s). Upon such timely request, the County shall meet with the Union and

enter into bargaining pursuant to ORS 243.698. Parties retain arbitration rights under ORS 243.698(4) only over the

impacts of the contracting out decision.


                                 ARTICLE 24 - REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION

                  Section 1. Parties agree to make best efforts to informally discuss requests for information prior to
formal requests being made with the objective to clarify the information needed and find efficient means of

meeting the needs of both parties. The intent of this provision is to discuss available information, reasonable

means of obtaining information, and potential costs in the event a formal request for information is made.




           AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                              Page 45
               Section 2. Upon a formal request for information, the parties will provide requests for information
consistent with PECBA. For formal requests that require more than 60 minutes of administrative time per request

as related to a particular incident, the parties may charge fees consistent with County policy for public records
requests, including administrative time for processing. When a formal request for information is submitted, the

party in receipt of the request shall estimate the staff time required to obtain the requested information, the

number of copied pages that could be produced, and the cost of such request. If it is estimated that that the

information request will require more than 60 minutes of staff time to produce and/or require more than 100

copied pages, any response to the request will be suspended to afford the requesting party the opportunity to

modify its request and ensure that the fees charged are consistent with the County’s policy for public records
requests. Each party agrees to make good faith efforts to provide information as efficiently as possible, and the
responding party may, at its discretion, provide electronic files in lieu of physical copies when possible.


               Section 3. Paper copies of materials provided by the responding party may be charged the paper

fees charged for public records request consistent with County policy. Either party may waive these costs at its

discretion. If fees and costs are requested, an itemized statement including hours and rates will be provided.


               Section 4, In the event the County imposes discipline on a bargaining unit employee, as provided

by Article 14, and upon the request of the employee or Union Representative, the County will provide copies of

the complete investigation relied upon by the County, including supporting documents, at no cost.


               Section 5, If a party requesting information, as part of a formal request for information, fails to

promptly pay the documented costs of obtaining, producing and/or providing such information, that party shall be
in violation of this Article. The parties also understand and agree that any waiver of costs shall not constitute a

waiver of this Article for any subsequent request for information. In the event of a dispute regarding a formal
request for information, such as the information requested or the costs associated with fulfilling the request, the

parties agree to use the grievance process as the sole remedial action to resolve the dispute.



                                       ARTICLE 25 - SAVINGS CLAUSE




          AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028                                                                       Page 46
‘*   *   Should any article, section, or portion thereof of this Agreement be held unlawful or unenforceable by an

opinion of the Attorney General of the State of Oregon or by any court of competent jurisdiction, or any

administrative agency of the State of Oregon having jurisdiction over the subject matter, such decision shall

apply only to the specific article, section or portion thereof directly specified in the decision. Upon the issuance

of any such decision, the parties agree immediately to negotiate a substitute, if possible, for the invalidated

article, section, or portion thereof. All other portions of this Agreement, and the Agreement as a whole, shall

continue without interruption except those remaining provisions which are so essential, connected and dependent

upon the unlawful or unenforceable part that it is apparent that such remaining provisions would not have been

agreed to without such other parts and the remaining provisions which, standing alone, are incomplete and

incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of this Agreement.


                                      ARTICLE 26 - SIDE AGREEMENTS

         The parties agree that the following Side Agreements shall be incorporated into this Agreement:

         Side Agreement filed under CJ 2019-000814 clarifying pay and work schedules for School Based Mental

Health Specialists.


                                         ARTICLE 27 - TERMINATION

         THIS AGREEMENT shall be effective upon execution or as specified herein and shall remain in full

force and effect until June 30, 2028. Unless either party notifies the other in writing of a desire to change the

terms of the Agreement at least sixty (60) days prior to the expiration date, this Agreement shall continue in full

force and effect for the succeeding twelve (12) month period and shall continue in full force and effect for each

succeeding twelve (12) month period thereafter, unless change is requested as specified herein.

         If negotiations continue beyond July 1 of any year in which this Agreement is in effect, the terms of this

Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until such negotiations are discontinued by either party or a new

Agreement has been mutually accepted.




           AFSCME CBA -2025-2028                                                                      Page 47
      FOR THE COUNTY:                          FOR THE UNION:


    Lu           fex Date"19 a5       Na ur Socloe |            gles
                                      Signat

                                      dindunes. theles
Comfhissioner

Ebner
Lidge
Commisylo oye
                          4 sfecos:
                           Date




                                                                 Page 48
          AFSCME CBA ~2025-2028
