COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT




             BETWEEN
        COOS COUNTY
SOLID WASTE DEPARTMENT




  TEAMSTERS LOCAL #206




     JULY 1, 2024 ~ JUNE 30, 2027
                                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS


PREAMBLE oo cscscsccssssessesccssssssseessenssesssessessssscsesssensesssenssssnsscessessessseasseusssnssseneasssssesnenessenesseenenaees i
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION uo. cccccessssseensssensesceeesesssesenesereneneesanssssensesensseeenssenensseseseessseee? 1
ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS occ tstestsceseeresestesseseessssssessssessnessrsnenseasananeneenes 1
ARTICLE 3- UNION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF wo... ecsscccssseesssesseeeeeeneneerensessssessnerensnens 2
ARTICLE 4 ~ SHOP STEWARDS 0... cccccessseseessseseresssssneenseeesenesaneasseaess                                                                            wid
ARTICLE 5 ~ HOURS OF WORK...                                                                                                                                 w3
ARTICLE 6 — HOLIDAYS oc                                              ecceccecseeesessstsasssassesesssssasssesssetssssesesssssnsesseseaseansensneseseenenseneesens 4
ARTICLE 7 — SICK LEAVE o.o.ccscsescsesssssseessesenseensneersescssssassssseseneasasassesanssesensaesansscanasscaseessanenes 5
ARTICLE 8 ~ VACATION... cccccssessssscscssessessssssensereessessasseesereessentecaserssasssesearasessensseseessenenses 6
ARTICLE 9 ~ OTHER LEAVE .....cccsssssssesssssssesesesssescevesssssscanseeceneuseenaseenssseneseseneesssnrnsaenanseenenens 8
ARTICLE 10 - HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE... cescsscssesssessesseseessesseseenseeereseassneseenees 11
ARTICLE 11 — WAGES wo... ccccsseesssesesssesssansensnseseneaesenssseuseeseneasssacsneneravesseessaneersnnseseenesaneererees 12
ARTICLE 12 — SENIORITY ...ccccsccsseesssessessssensessesesseessnsseaseasesseesasssessesssensesessaentaneeseenentanegs 14
ARTICLE 13 — DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE ....ccscssccsssesesssesssssesseesseesseserseseeateeseneressanens 16
ARTICLE 14- SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES .....ccscecesssessesssesseeseresssssesssseseneeesentassensnssensaes 17
ARTICLE 15 — SAVINGS CLAUSE... ccccessesscsenesvsnsseesssseeresssaresensesessseasensassetssessesassensees 19
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL PROVISIONS ...........                                                                                                              wa ld
ARTICLE 17 - DURATION AND TERMINATION ...                                                               beeeeesneaseeaseatsensereenensseneeneneeeees 21
EXHIBIT “A” — WAGE CLASSIFICATION AND LONGEVITY SCALE cesses                                                                                                   22
                                              PREAMBLE

This Agreement is entered into by Coos County, a political subdivision of the State of Oregon,
hereinafter referred to as the County, and Teamster Local Number 206, hereinafter referred to as
the Union.

This document represents the full Agreement between the County and the Union. The purpose of
this Agreement is to set forth those matters pertaining to rates of pay, hours of work, fringe
benefits, and other matters pertaining to employment.




                                   ARTICLE 1 —- RECOGNITION

The County recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for the purpose of
establishing salaries, wages, hours and other conditions of employment for all full time and part
time employees in the County’s Solid Waste Department excluding guards, office clerical, and
supervisory personnel as defined by the Employment Relations Board of the State of Oregon, and
extra employees (part time working less than 600 hours per year).




                             ARTICLE 2 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS

It is recognized that, except as expressly provided in this agreement, the County           shall retain
whatever rights and authority are necessary for it to operate and direct the affairs of the Department
in all of its various aspects, including, but not limited to, the right to direct the working forces; to
plan, direct and control all the operations and services of the Departments; to determine the
methods, means, organizations and number of personnel by which such operations and services
are to be conducted; to assign and transfer employees; to schedule working hours and to assign
overtime; to hire, promote, demote, suspend, discipline, discharge or relieve employees due to lack
of work or other reasons; to make and enforce rules and regulations; to change or eliminate existing
practices, equipment or facilities; and to subcontract.




Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                        I
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027       -
To the extent that management exercises any of its rights above which results in the closure, sale,
or transfer of the Solid Waste Facility, the County agrees to the following:
         1.   The County and the Union shall provide each other with any and all information as may
              be required by PECBA.
        2.    To the extent required        by PECBA,      bargain in good    faith over the effects of
              managements decisions as provided under the expedited bargaining process under
              PECBA (ORS 243.698),



                        ARTICLE 3- UNION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF

Section 1.    No member of the bargaining unit shall be required to become or remain a member of
the Union as a condition of employment. Each member shall have the right to freely join or decline
to join the Union.       Each Union member          shall have the right to freely retain or discontinue
membership.      No employee shall be discriminated against on account of membership or non-
membership in the Union or Association.


Section.2.     Union dues and initiation fees and any other existing payroll deductions shall be
deducted from the wages of members in the bargaining unit when authorized as provided herein.


Section 3.    Any authorization for payroll deductions may be made by a member of the bargaining
unit upon written notice to the County and the Union prior to the 15" day of any month to be
effective on the first day of the following month.          Any revocation to an authorization must be
pursuant to the terms of the authorization.


Section 4.     Upon receipt of authorization of payroll deductions from an employee within the
bargaining unit, the County shall begin deducting Union dues and initiation fees and any other
payroll deductions for the next pay period and shall continue to make the regular deductions. The
aggregate deductions of all employees shall be remitted together with an itemized statement to the
Secretary-Treasurer of the Union no later than the 15" of the month following the month for which




Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                      2
Collective Bargaining   Agreement 2024 — 2027       -
the deductions were withheld.      The Union agrees to refund to the County any amount paid to it in
error.
Section 5, The County will notify the Union of all new hires in classifications in the bargaining
unit within one week after their having been employed, furnishing the Union with the new
employee’s name, social security number, mailing address and classification.


Section 6. If the County acts in compliance with the provisions of this Article, the Union will
indemnify, defend and hold the County harmless against any claims made and against any suit
instituted against the County as a result of the County’s enforcement of this Article.




                                  ARTICLE 4 —- SHOP STEWARDS

The Union may designate stewards from among the employees.            The authority of the stewards
shall be to investigate grievances and to transmit information to the Union and to the employees.
Stewards have no authority to settle grievances, take strike action or call a work stoppage.
Stewards shall not be deemed to be agents of the Union.      The Union shall notify the Solid Waste
Management and County Personnel Officer of whom is designated as a steward.




                                 ARTICLE 5 —- HOURS OF WORK

Section 1. Application. This Article is intended to define the hours of work per day and per week
in effect at the time of execution of this Agreement.


Section 2. Work Week, Each full time employee’s normal work week shall consist of not more
than five (5) consecutive days of work followed by two (2) days off.       The work week shall not
exceed forty (40) hours.


Section 3. Work Day. The normal work day for employees shall consist of not more than 8 hours
of work each day.


Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 ~ Solid Waste                                                     3
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027       -
All employees shall receive a minimum of a 30 minute unpaid lunch break.


Section 4.   Work Schedules.       The shifts, work days and hours to which employees are assigned
shall be posted monthly on the departmental bulletin board.         In the event of an emergency the
County may depart from the normal work schedule as determined by the Solid Waste Management
or their designee.   In addition, the Start/Quit times above may be changed at any time by mutual
agreement between the affected parties.




                                      ARTICLE 6 —- HOLIDAYS

Section 1, Holidays. The following days shall be recognized and observed as paid holidays.
                 New Year's Day                         Labor Day
                 Martin Luther King Day                 Veteran's Day
                 President's Day                        Thanksgiving Day
                 Memorial Day                           Day before Christmas Day
                 Christmas Day                          Independence Day
                 Day after Thanksgiving Day


In addition to the above listed holidays, effective after completion of 1 year of County service, two
floating holidays shall be granted to each employee on July 1 of each fiscal year. One additional
floating holiday effective after completion of 15 years of County service.       The floating holidays
shall not be cumulative and shall not be paid to employees in addition to wages ifnot used; floating
holidays not used by June 30 of the fiscal year in which they were granted shail extinguish
automatically. The Solid Waste Management and employee shall schedule a mutually convenient
time to take the floating holidays so as not to interrupt the efficient operation of the disposal site.


Section 2, Holiday Pay. Regular full-time employees will be paid for eight (8) hours of holiday
pay for each of the holidays listed in Section 1 at their regular rate of pay. In order to be eligible
for holiday pay, an employee must work the scheduled day before and the scheduled day after such

Coos County and Teamsters Lacal 206 - Solid Waste                                                         4
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027         -
holiday or be on approved leave, and have worked or been on paid leave no less than eighty (80)
hours in the calendar month of the holiday. The employee shall be paid for holiday pay when on
paid leave, provided that the employee returns to work at the end of such leave. Paid holidays for
regular part time employees shall be prorated in such a manner that the holiday time given to part
time employees will be proportional to holiday time given a full time employee for the month in
which the holiday falls. In determining the amount of holiday pay to be received, full time
employees will be considered to work 173.33 hours per month, and regular part time employees a
fractional portion thereof.


Section 3. Weekend Holidays. Ifa holiday shall fall on an employee’s scheduled day off, whenever
possible, the nearest succeeding or preceding work day shall be observed as the holiday. If the
County is unable to schedule the holiday in this manner, then it shall be observed on a day as
determined by the County.


Section 4. Holiday During Leave.        Should an employee be on authorized sick leave or vacation
when a holiday occurs, the holiday shall not be charged against leave or vacation.


Section 5. Holiday Work. If an employee works on a holiday listed above, he or she shall be paid
or granted compensatory time;
            (a)   For the first eight (8) hours worked, time and one half for all hours worked in
                  addition to eight hours holiday pay;
            (b) For all hours in excess of eight (8) hours worked, double time for all hours worked
                  in addition to eight hours holiday pay.




                                     ARTICLE 7 — SICK LEAVE


Section 1, Accrual.    Employees shall accrue sick leave at the regular rates of pay, and at the rate
of eight (8) hours per month. It is understood that sick leave is a benefit granted employees for use
in the event of conditions covered in Section 3 of "Sick Leave" for employees or members of their
families.   The employee shall accrue sick leave when on paid leave, provided that the employee

Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                     5
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027       -
returns to work at the end of such leave. Sick leave shall be prorated for regular part time
employees.


Section 2, Maximum Accrual and Payment.               Employees may accumulate sick leave up to a
maximum of 120 working days or 960 hours. No compensation for accrued sick leave shall be
provided for any employee for any other purpose, except as provided herein.        Sick leave shall not
be accrued during an unpaid leave of absence of more than two consecutive weeks.


Section 3. Use of Sick Leave.         Sick leave may be used for any circumstance permitted under
Oregon’s Sick Time Law.        The employee shall notify the Solid Waste Management no later than
two (2) hours before his or her regular scheduled shift that he or she shall be using sick leave. The
Solid Waste Management shall be notified at least forty-eight (48) hours in advance of scheduled
medical and dental check-ups.        Additional medical verification and/or requirements may apply
where the employee is subject to the provisions of the OFLA/FMLA.


Section 4. Separation. Employees separated from employment for (other reasons than dismissals for
cause), after satisfactorily completing six (6) months of employment shall be paid either 25% of
their accrued sick leave with the remainder reported to PERS or have 100% of their accrued sick
leave reported to PERS to be applied toward their retirement, at the option of the employee.


Section 5. Definition of “Family Member of Employee.”           For the purpose of this Article, the term
“Family Member of the employee” shall have the same meaning as set forth in Article 9, section 5
of this agreement.

                                      ARTICLE 8 - VACATION

Section 1. Accrual of Vacation Time.         In order to be eligible for vacation accrual, an employee
must have worked or been on paid leave no less than eighty (80) hours in the month. Vacation
leave shall be credited according to the following schedule:




Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 ~ Solid Waste                                                        6
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027       -
              (a)      Less than five (5) continuous full years’ service, eight (8) hours paid vacation
                       leave for each month of service cumulative to a maximum of one hundred ninety-
                       two (192) hours.
              (b)      Five (5) continuous years, but less than ten (10) continuous years of service, ten
                       (10) hours for each month of service cumulative to maximum of two-hundred
                       forty (240) hours.
              (c)      Ten (10) continuous years, but less than fifteen (15) continuous years of service,
                       twelve (12) hours for each month of service cumulative to a maximum of two-
                       hundred eighty-cight (288) hours.
              (d)      Fifteen   (15)   or more   continuous   years’   service,   but less than twenty   (20)
                       continuous years of service, fourteen (14) hours for each month of service,
                       cumulative to a maximum of three hundred thirty-six (336) hours.
              (e)      (e)   Twenty (20) continuous years or more, sixteen (16) hours paid vacation
                       leave for each month of service, cumulative to a maximum             of three hundred
                       eighty-four (384) hours.
              (f)      Employees shall not accumulate vacation in excess of the amounts indicated in
                       paragraphs a, b, c, d and e.


Employee's      are eligible for vacation after six (6) months             of initial employment    with the
department.         Employees shall be compensated for accrued vacation leave at their regular rates of
pay, including shift differentials for their regularly scheduled days.


Section 2. Part Time Employees.             Regular part time employees shall accumulate vacation leave on
a prorata basis.


Section 3. Vacation Scheduling.             Employees shall take vacation leave at the time scheduled, and
may request specific vacation periods.            Such vacation schedules may be amended by the County
to meet work emergencies as determined by the Solid Waste Management or their designee.


Section 4. Accumulation of Vacation Time.               County employees may accumulate a maximum of
vacation leave up to twice their annual accrual rate. Employees who might lose accumulated leave

Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 ~ Solid Waste                                                                7
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 ~ 2027       -
because of accrual limitations may request to take vacation time to prevent loss of such earned
credits.    Earned and unused vacation time exceeding the maximum allowed shall be forfeited
except that vacation time exceeding the maximum amount to be accrued shall not be forfeited
whenever, as a result of a requirement of the Solid Waste Management, such time cannot be taken.

In such cases, those employees over their maximum           accrual shall have six (6) months to take
vacation.


Section 5. Leave of Absence.      Employees shall not accrue vacation credits during an unpaid leave
of absence of more than two (2) consecutive weeks.


Section 6. Required Vacation,      County employees shall be required to take vacation leave at the
annual minimum rate of five (5) working days.           Employees shall have the option of choosing
between consecutive or split vacation periods.


Section 7, Termination.      Employees separated from County employment who have served the
required six (6) months shall be entitled to cash compensation for accrued vacation leave.
Employees leaving County service during the initial six (6) months of their employment shall not
be entitled to any compensation for accrued vacation leave.


In case of death, compensation for accrued vacation leave shall be paid in the same manner that
salary due to the decedent is paid.




                                   ARTICLE 9 - OTHER LEAVE

Section 1. Leave of Absence. After an employee has exhausted all accrued paid leaves, a leave of
absence without pay for a limited period not to exceed six (6) months may be granted by the Solid
Waste Management or the Board of Commissioners.             Such leaves shall not be approved for any
employee who      is accepting other employment,        except as otherwise provided in this article.
Employees on an unpaid leave of absence for over two (2) weeks may retain health, life and benefit
insurance coverage by paying the cost of the monthly premium. Such payments shall be received


Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                     8
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027         -
by the Accounting Department by the 20th of the month prior to the month for which the
employees desired coverage or the employees coverage shall be canceled.


Section 2,   Jury Duty: Miscellaneous Duties.           An employee shall be granted a leave of absence
with pay for:

             (a)   Service on one (1) jury term in any consecutive twenty-four (24) calendar month
                   period, provided that the salary paid to the employee for the period of absence
                   shall be reduced by the amount of money received as statutory juror's fees, not
                   including amounts received as expenses which are authorized by statute. For any
                   period during the term of the jury when the Employee has been excused by the
                   court from service as a juror, the Employee wil! report immediately to his or her
                   immediate supervisor and shall be considered available for working during that
                   period.
             (b)   Attendance in court in connection with an employee's officially assigned duties,
                   including the time going to the court and returning to his headquarters; provided
                   that the salary   paid to him        shall be reduced   by   an amount   equal   to any
                   compensation he may receive as statutory or expert witness fees not including
                   amounts received as expenses which are authorized by statute.

             ©)    Other authorized duties in connection with County business.

             @)    Regular salary shall be allowed to those employees who are unable to report for
                   their regular duties because of natural disasters beyond their control; or because
                   they are needed to work for the safety of their family or to prevent property
                   damage; or to help with rescue work to save life and property; said policy to be
                   effective only when the Board of County Commissioners has determined that an
                   actual emergency exists, and upon approval of the employee’s department head.


Section 3. Military Leave. Military leave shall be granted as required by Oregon Revised Statutes
and federal law.




Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                            9
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 - 2027         -
Section 4.   Other Paid Leaves.       National Guard, Peace Corps, other applicable armed services
leave, and VISTA leave shall be granted in accordance with Oregon Revised Statutes and federal
law.


Section 5. Bereavement Leave. In the event of a death of'a family member in his or her immediate
family, an employee shall be entitled to up to three (3) paid working days for bereavement leave.
The leave may be extended up to five (5) total days if the death occurs outside the State and the
employee does in fact travel outside the State of Oregon to attend the funeral. It shall be the duty
of the employee to notify the Solid Waste Management of a pending absence and its approximate
duration. If other leave is used to supplement the leave authorized by this Section, the Solid Waste
Management shall be informed. For the purpose of this Section, an employee’s immediate family
means   husband,   wife,   same-sex   domestic    partner,   son, daughter,   mother,(whether   biological,

adoptive or foster), father, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-
law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, stepparent
or stepchild of the individual, unless otherwise provided by law. Paid sick leave may also be used
for bereavement leave. Unpaid bereavement leave under OFLA may also be used if taken within
sixty (60) days of notice to the employee of the death of the family member. The Solid Waste
Management retains discretion to extend bereavement leave for an additional period of time or for
individuals outside the employee’s immediate family as defined herein.


Section 6. Family Medical Leave. Family Medical leave of absence shall be as required by relevant
State and Federal statutes and County Personnel Policies and Procedures. An employee must use
accrued sick, vacation and compensatory time during such leave consistent with the County
Personnel Policies and Procedures, except that an employee shall only be required to use all but
40 hours of vacation time during such leave.          Leave in excess of that allowed by statute may be
granted by the County in its discretion.




Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                        10
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 ~ 2027       -
                        ARTICLE 10 - HEALTH AND LIFE INSURANCE

Section 1. Health Insurance.
The County     will contribute as indicated below toward the cost of the following medical, dental
and vision Insurance coverage:


                         1. Medical -Teamsters (OTET) G/W or F/W Plan (Union’s choice)
                         2. Dental - Teamsters (OTET) D-6 Plan
                         3. Vision - Teamsters (OTET) V-4 Plan
                         4. Retirement - Teamsters (OTET) R-3 Plan


Effective July 1, 2024, the County’s contribution towards medical, dental and vision insurance
will not exceed $1,700 per month.         The individual employee contribution shall be any additional
costs in excess of $1,700    per month.


Effective for January 1, 2025 and any year thereafter covered by this Agreement, the County shall
pay one hundred percent (100%) of the health, vision and dental insurance monthly premium for all
eligible employees.


The individual employee shall be responsible for paying any additional costs over the above stated
County contributions.     The County is hereby authorized to advance such sum(s) for the express
purpose of premium payment and then to make automatic payroll deductions from the earnings of
any and all covered employees for reimbursement to the County of any such advances.


Section 2. Eligibility. All regular full-time and regular part-time employees who are on paid status
for eighty (80) or more hours per month shall be eligible for health insurance the first day of the
month following the first month in which the employee was on paid status for eighty (80) hours or
more. For the purpose of this agreement, “paid status” includes hours worked (excluding overtime)
and hours the employee was away from work on approved paid leave.




Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 -~ Solid Waste                                                   il
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 ~ 2027          -
Section 3. Continued Coverage.       The County shall maintain insurance to cover employees in the
bargaining unit for long term disabilities which have occurred on or off the job. Such insurance
shall supplement     Workers'   Compensation      or Social   Security   for a period of five (5) years
beginning after the first six (6) months of disability at a rate of sixty (60%) percent of base monthly
pay.
                                       ARTICLE 11 - WAGES

Section 1. Wages. Wages for all classifications shall be increased each year by 7% on July 1,
2024, 3% on July 1, 2025, and 3% on July 1, 2026. The County shall pick up the six percent
(6%) employee contribution to PERS or OPSRP whichever is appropriate.


Section 2. Pay Periods.      Salaries and wages of employees         shall be paid on a monthly basis.
Paychecks will be issued by the 30" day of the month worked.             In the event that the 30th day of
the month worked shall fall on a Saturday or a Sunday the preceding Friday shall be payday.
Should the 30th day of the month worked fall on a holiday, the preceding work day shall be payday.
Failure to receive pay on the designated day for any reason beyond the control of the County shall
not constitute a breach of this Agreement.


Employees shall be notified of the reason for any delay in the designated payday.              The above
provisions may be changed should the County elect to purchase or otherwise adopt a different
payroll plan, whether from a private company or other public body including itself, but the
employees shall not be paid less than monthly.


For the purpose of wages and accrued benefits, the date of accrual shall be the first day of the
month for employees hired between the first and the fourteenth day of the month, and the first day
of the following month for those employees hired between the fifteenth and the thirty-first day of
the month.


Section 3. Cal] Back Time.        Any employee called back to work on any day other than their
regularly scheduled work day shall be paid for a minimum of two (2) hours at the rate of one and
one-half (1-1/2) times their regular rate of pay. Any employee who has been off duty, and is called

Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                       12
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027       -
back to work outside their regular work shift shall be paid for a minimum of two (2) hours at the
rate of one and one-half (1-1/2) times their normal rate of pay.


Section 4, Reporting Time. Any employee who is regularly scheduled to work, and is not notified
two (2) hours before the shift starts that there is no work that shift, who presents himself for work
as regularly scheduled but where work is not available for him and is excused from duty shall be
paid for a maximum of four (4) hours straight time pay.


Section 5. Overtime. Employees covered by this Agreement shall be paid one and one-half (1 4)
times their regular straight time hourly rate for all authorized hours of work in excess of (a) forty
(40) hours in any work week or (b) the employee's regular scheduled shift. The employee's regular
scheduled shift shall be at straight time. The employee must have worked their full regular shift
to receive time and one-half for excess hours worked.        Overtime shall be calculated in fifteen
minute increments.      Overtime shall be distributed as equally as possible throughout the calendar
year among qualified employees as determined by the Solid Waste Management.


All employees may be given the option of taking compensatory time off in lieu of pay for overtime
worked at the discretion of management.        Compensatory time shall be accumulated at the rate of
one and one half (1 % ) hours for all hours worked, not to exceed 100 hours.


Section 6. Mileage Pay. Employees using their own vehicle in the performance of County business
shall be reimbursed pursuant to the County Personnel Policies as directed and authorized by the
Solid Waste Management.


Section 7. Longevity.     Employees who have worked five (5) years on a continuous and full time
basis for the Solid Waste Department shall receive at the beginning of their 6th year of full time
employment a three percent (3%) increase on their base hourly rate. Employees maintaining ten
(10) years of full time employment with the Solid Waste Department shall receive an additional
three percent (3%) on their base hourly rate for recognition of their years of service for a total of
six percent (6%) on their base hourly rate. Employees maintaining twenty (20) years of full time
employment with the Solid Waste Department shall receive an additional three percent (3%) on

Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                   13
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 ~ 2027         -
their base hourly rate for recognition of their years of service for a total of nine percent (9%) on
their base hourly rate.    Employees maintaining twenty five (25) years of full time employment
with the Solid Waste Department shall receive an additional three percent (3%) on their base
hourly    rate for recognition of their years of service for a total of twelve percent (12%) on their
base hourly rate.


Section 8. Lay Off, Employee's separated from County employment due to layoff shall be placed
on a layoff list by seniority for twelve months..


Section 9. PERS.      The County shall continue to participate in the Oregon Public Employees
Retirement System.


Section 10. Merit Step Increases.        Annually, all members will have the opportunity for a merit-
step increase on the member’s anniversary date. Merit step increases are conditioned on a
satisfactory performance review, which is defined as an overall performance rating of average or
above, Any merit-step increase that is denied will be subject to Article 14, Settlement of Disputes.
If the member is not provided a performance review by the end of the month of their anniversary
date, the member      will automatically      receive    a merit-step   increase.   Supervisors   will notify
employees    of any     unsatisfactory    work      performance   that would jeopardize       a satisfactory
performance evaluation prior to any performance evaluation. The notice will provide specific
examples of unsatisfactory performance and will advise the employee of the specific corrective
measures that will allow for a satisfactory evaluation and provide time and resources to allow the
employee an opportunity to accomplish the required corrective measures. Performance evaluations
shall be based on an objective, consistent and verifiable system to ensure compliance with the
Oregon Pay Equity Law.


                                     ARTICLE 12 - SENIORITY

Section   1. Definition.    Seniority is defined as the employee's           length of service within the
Department and it shall be computed from the time of his most recent date of hire.



Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                          14
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027         -
Section 2. Probationary Employee.        An employee is probationary for his or her first twelve (12)
months within the bargaining unit. This probationary period may be extended by mutual written
agreement between the Union and the County for one additional six month period. A probationary
employee has no seniority right and may be discharged at will.         A probationary employee shall
never be transferred, promoted, retained during work force reductions, restored to service or be
given preference in any manner over a non-probationary employee.


Section 3. Seniority List. A seniority list shall be prepared by the County each twelve (12) months,
posted on the bulletin board, and a copy mailed to the Union.


Section 4. Application.    Seniority shall prevail in the reduction and restoration of the work force,
provided the senior employee is capable of performing the work. Seniority and qualifications shall
prevail in shift preference and vacation time preference.      Where reduction and restoration of the
work force are not an issue, or when there is no job opening or vacancy, an employee may not
bump into a position held by a less senior employee.


Section 5. Loss of Seniority.        An employee shall lose seniority       for the following reasons:
Discharge; resignation; absence in excess of one (1) year due to illness or injury that does not arise
in the course of employment; layoff for twelve (12) months or longer; failure to return from an
unpaid leave of absence on the first day following expiration of such leave.


Section 6. Job Openings and Vacancies.        In the event of a job opening or vacancy, employees shall
be given the opportunity to fill the job in order of their seniority and qualification. All openings
shall be posted for a minimum of three (3) calendar days and shall state a closing date and time.
Employees who desire the posted job must bid for it on forms supplied by the County on or before
the closing date and time.     Successful bidders shall have 30 days to demonstrate their ability to
perform the work of the new position.         If either the County or the employee determines that the
successful bidder is not suitable for the bid position, the employee shall be returned to his/her
former position without loss of seniority or benefit.      During the thirty (30) day trial period, the
County has the right to use extra help to fill the position vacated by the sucessful bidder with no
recourse from the Union.

Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                    15
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027         -
Section 7. Retentions of Seniority. An employee transferred out of the bargaining unit shall retain,
but not accumulate, seniority and may return to the bargaining unit upon request and with the
approval of management.


Section 8. Rehires. In the event of restoration of the work force, an employee will be notified of
the open position by certified mail, return receipt, sent to the last address given by the employee
to the County Human Resources Office. The employee will have fifteen (15) calendar days from
postmark date of such notice to notify the Human Resources Office of his/her intention to return
to work. Failure to respond timely shall be considered as immediate voluntary termination. If the
employee notifies the County of his/her intention to return within the time limits specified above,
the employee will then have not more than 10 calendar days to report to work. Failure to report to
work within the 10 day period shall also be considered as immediate voluntary termination.




                        ARTICLE 13 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE


Section 1,    Non-probationary employees covered under this Agreement shall be disciplined
pursuant to adopted County Personnel Policies.        Probationary employees may be discharged or
disciplined with or without cause.


Section 2.    The County shall notify the Union in writing of any discharge, or suspension, or
warning notice issued to an employee covered by this Agreement within ten (10) working days of
its occurrence,



Section 3. The County shall, upon written request of an employee, remove any documentation of
a written reprimand imposed more than three years prior to the request from his personnel file,
unless the employee has been disciplined for the same thing or comparable conduct during such
period.




Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                 16
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 ~ 2027       -
                          ARTICLE 14- SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES

Section 1. Grievance Procedure.         To promote better relations, the parties agree to settle any
disputes as to the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement by the following procedure:


Section 2. Manner of Resolving Disputes.
        STEP1. The employee or his representative may take up the grievance or dispute with the
        Solid Waste Management within ten (10) working days of its occurrence. The Solid Waste
        Management      and the employee or his/her Union representative (or steward in non-
        disciplinary disputes) shall then attempt to settle the matter informally within five 6)
        working days from the initial notice.


        STEP 2. If the grievance or dispute cannot be settled informally as provided in Step 1 it
        shall be submitted in writing to the Solid Waste Management and the Human Resources
        within five (5) working days. The Solid Waste Management has ten (10) working days to
        respond to the grievance or dispute.


        STEP3. If the grievance or dispute has not been settled within the ten (10) days as provided
        in Step 2, the employee or Union Representative shall submit the grievance in writing
        within five (5) working days, to the Board of Commissioners with a copy to the Human
        Resources.   The written grievance shall include: 1. A detailed statement of the grievance
        and all relevant facts, 2. The specific provisions of the contract violated, and 3. Remedies
        sought.   The Board of Commissioners shall have twenty (20) working days to informally
        settle the grievance or set a hearing date. The Board of Commissioners shall have five (5)
        working days to submit their decision in writing after the informal settlement or hearing.


        STEP 4. If the grievance has not been settled at Step 3, either party may, within ten (10)
        working days after service of a written decision by the Board of Commissioners, submit
        the grievance to binding arbitration.




Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 ~ Solid Waste                                                    17
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027       -
        STEP5. Arbitration. If the Union and the County cannot agree on an arbitrator within ten
        (10) days of submission of the grievance to binding arbitration, the parties shall select an
        arbitrator from a list of seven (7) Oregon and/or Washington arbitrators sent by the
        Employment Relations Board. The parties shall select an arbitrator by mutual agreement
        or, if unable to agree, by flipping a coin to determine who strikes the first name, and
        alternately striking a name until one remains which shall be the arbitrator.


The arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding, but he shall have no power to alter, modify, to
add or detract from the terms of this Agreement. His decision shall be within the scope and terms
of this Agreement and he shall submit it within thirty (30) days from the close of the hearing.


Arbitrators fees shall be split one half (1/2) to each party.   Each party shall be responsible for
compensating its own representatives and witnesses in arbitration,        If either desires a verbatim
record of the proceedings, it may cause such a record to be made; providing, however, that it pays
for the record and makes copies available without charge to the other party and to the arbitrator.
For the purpose of this section,       a working day shall be defined as Monday        through Friday,
excluding holidays, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.


Any time limit specified in this Article may be extended by mutual agreement of the employee or
Union and the County.      Otherwise, a party subject to these procedures shall be bound to the time
limits contained herein.


Jn the event of a grievance concerning a disciplinary issue, an individual who does not wish the
Union to pursue a grievance may notify the Union in writing at any time.       An employee remains

free to consult with a Union representative at any point during the disciplinary process.          An
employee’s exercise of the right to not pursue a grievance shall not constitute a precedent with
regard to the substance of the discipline and/or grievance in question.


An individual employee or group of employees at any time consistent with the time limits herein
may present grievances to the Solid Waste Management or Board of Commissioners, without the
intervention of the Union, if:

Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 ~ Solid Waste                                                    18
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 ~ 2027         -
            (a)   The adjustment is not inconsistent with the terms of the current labor agreement;
                  and
            (b)   The Union has been given opportunity to be present at the adjustment.




                                ARTICLE 15 - SAVINGS CLAUSE

Should any article, section or portion thereof of this Agreement be held unlawful or unenforceable
by any court of competent jurisdiction or any administrative agency of the State of Oregon having
jurisdiction over the subject matter, such decision shall apply only to the specific article, section
or portion thereof directly specified in the decision. Unless the decision is appealed by either party,
the parties agree immediately to negotiate a substitute, if possible, for the invalidated article,
section, or portion thereof. All other portions of this Agreement, and the Agreement as a whole,
shall continue without interruption except those remaining provisions which are so essential and
inseparably connected with and dependent upon the unlawful or unenforceable part that it is
apparent that such remaining provisions would not have been agreed to without such other parts
and the remaining provisions which, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of being
executed in accordance with the intent of this Agreement.


                             ARTICLE 16 ~- GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 1. No Discrimination.         The County and the Union agree that equal opportunity in
employment, promotion and all other employer-employee relationships is the rule. Nothing in this
contract is meant to hinder or in any way inhibit an equal opportunity or affirmative action program
that may be adopted.      Further, the provisions of this Agreement shall be applied equally to all
employees in the bargaining unit without discrimination as to age, sex, marital status, race, color,
creed, national origin, religion, political affiliation, membership or non membership in the Union,
sexual orientation or other protected class as defined by applicable state and/or federal law.
It is specifically and expressly understood and agreed that taking a grievance to arbitration
constitutes an election of remedies by the employee, and that by doing so, the employee expressly



Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                    19
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 ~ 2027       -
waives his or her independent right to pursue a remedy in any other forum including before the
courts, Bureau of Labor and Industries or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. All
references in the Agreement to employees designate both sexes, and wherever the male gender is
used it shall be construed to include male and female employees.


Section 2. The County shall give up to one (1) Union Steward of the bargaining unit time off with
pay to participate in scheduled negotiations with the County when the Agreement is open.             The
Union Stewards shall not be entitled to overtime while participating in the scheduled negotiations.


Section 3. Visits by Union Representatives.           The County agrees that Union representatives shall
have reasonable access to the premises of the County to conduct the Union business.               Union
representatives shall first report their presence to the Director of the Solid Waste Department.
Such visits shall not interfere with the normal operation of the Solid Waste Department.


Section 4. Tools and Uniforms. Working tools, equipment and protective clothing required by the
County in the performance of the job shall be furnished by the County except for safety boots, The
County will reimburse each employee required to wear safety boots up to $300.00 each fiscal year
upon presentation of receipt for approved safety boots (or other safety equipment approved by the
Director) from the employee.      The reimbursement shall be made on the next voucher cycle. The
County shall not be responsible for articles damaged or lost as a result of the employee's negligence
or abuse.


Section 5, Dumping Privileges. Employees may continue to dump personal household garbage at
no charge per past practice. However, in accordance with ORS 244.040, the value of this benefit
will be reflected on the employee's W-2 for income tax purposes.


Section 6. Health and Safety.       The County agrees to maintain a safe and healthful workplace
consistent with State and Federal laws.       The County also agrees to maintain a safety committee
within the Solid Waste Department that complies with State and Federal regulations.




Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 — Solid Waste                                                     20
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027       -
Section 7. Lead Worker Premium Pay. A lead worker is an employee who, in addition to his/her
regular duties, has been assigned in writing by his/her supervisor of the requirement to perform
substantially all of the duties of a lead worker for one (1) complete day or more.   Such duties
include, but are not necessarily limited to: 1) new employee orientation; 2) assignment and
reassignment of tasks necessary to accomplish work efficiently; 3) providing direction to
workers concerning work practices; 4) training employees; 5) review and evaluation of work of
employees for conformance to standards; 6) providing assessments of employee performance to
supervisors; 7) other duties as may be assigned.      Assignment of Lead Worker responsibilities
shall be made in the sole discretion of the County and may be removed at any time. Employees
assigned lead worker responsibilities above shall receive an additional five percent (5%) added
to their base wage during the period of assignment.

Employees at their discretion may decline lead worker assignments.


                       ARTICLE 17 - DURATION AND TERMINATION


This Agreement shall be in full force and effect from July 1, 2024 to and including June 30, 2027
and shall continue in full force and effect from year to year thereafter, unless notice of desire to
amend or terminate the Agreement is served by either party upon the other at least sixty (60) days
prior to date of expiration.         Such notification   shall include proposed   language for such
modifications.


SIGNED-FOR THE COUNTY                                           SIGNED FOR THE UNION




Date:   10 [colrerg                                           Date:   lof24/ 2624


Coos County and Teamsters Local 206 ~ Solid Waste                                                  21
Collective Bargaining Agreement 2024 — 2027       -
                                                                         L202 “P20 tuamre8p BuuDB.iwg aaroazJOD
                                                                  ASO 44 PYOS — 9OT JO20T Saaisumay pun MyunoD sooD
   ‘sea jeosiy Buipasaid aiqua auy 10) (X 16 N) JUsUIaSJOpUsS JyUR} & YW TOD Y Sse}D B pourejurew
     sey sohojdwa ay; yeu; “Weed jeosy ay} Jo pua ain Jo skep Og UIyjIM ‘UOHe}UeUNZOp apiAOld Jsnw
  uogedyisse]o JoyesadoQ juawudinby ey3 ul aeAojdwe ue ‘Aed aaquaoul asuaol| “1G sAlede1 OL   “1e08K
      4ad 90°000‘1$ yo Aed eaquaoul asuasl 7q5 105 ajqiHye ere suOQeoYIsselo 10;e19d6 yUaWdinby           ‘SO]ON
                           %G JPUOHIPPe Ue SAiad—al SB     isuodsai Ueupee]    peubissy seakojduiy
       .                  .                  -                  .                  juepusny
     Le0e$             EL OLS             6b els             SO'8Ls           ayeg / Joyo AUN              £02
     COLE              OV'LLS            C6SL$               Sv'OL$            Juepuepy 3}eg               202
     tod A)            Sr ezs            aA                  el ccs         soyesodg juswidinby            002
     ydaig             ¢ dag              zdaig              1 dais            NolLwolissv19           | SSRVHO
                      ATVOS ALIAZDNOT ONY NOILVOIAISSV19 JDVM
                         (AL) PCOT “t AIRE Pande
                       (siojsurea J.) WOT) aIseAA PITOS
ATVOS ALIADONOT ANY NOLLVOLSSV1D GOV                             ~ <V» LIGTAXS.
