COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT



              BETWEEN




           COOS COUNTY

                   and



      TEAMSTERS LOCAL #223




       July 1, 2024 — June 30, 2027
ARTICLE | - PREAMBLE 0... ceccccccccceetnsteeneretssnerensasneenenreteneseneuss
                                                                             ness 3

ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION occ                     scceecsssesccseeseassersesassseesaseeessesensenenees 3

ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT RIGHTS... cccccscsescecserseesseserneetenseeeensanes 6

ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECKOFF |... ccscecstsceseeseeeees 6

ARTICLE 5 - WAGE RATES oo. ceccccessesesessetsuenenennecntenseenseeraaesrentansneneaees 11

ARTICLE 6 - EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN .......cccccesscssesseuessstsensereeeneaes 15

ARTICLE 7 - HOLIDAYS ooo cccecsssccteeesseeseeeeenseneesarcnaessasetasnassseneesenegeates 17

ARTICLE 8 - VACATIONS             oc cccccicessesestercesesereeseuseeeensssaeesesseneessaenssneeees 18

ARTICLE 9 - SICK LEAVE ...cccccccccsssescescntenareseteenesenacesensesssenenensaasaaenas 20

ARTICLE 10 - OTHER LEAVES 0.0... ccc ces ccecceteeeeesseesessnsettacrestsecnaeeseeeanes 21

ARTICLE 11 - WORK DAY — WORK WEEK ..0....ccceeccssescetsesseeteestenneeetaes 24

ARTICLE 12 - OVERTIME ....cccccccsscessssseecusecesseeresnsceseuaeserssnsenssunesenareeees 26

ARTICLE 13 - SENIORITY o...ccccccecsesssceeescceseseceesecnnsaecensaessaseeenasaeeransesens 27

ARTICLE 14 -        FILLING OF VACANCIES |... .cccccceccecnssssessseuseetescnsesnennenes 28

ARTICLE 15 - LAYOFFS oo. ccecsssscetsseescereesensseescersieesieeeeueeassnasesensesaese 29

ARTICLE 16 - DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE 0.0... cccccsesstuseeetnseneseeeeees 30

ARTICLE 17 - SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES .....ccccccesssscssesseeeessenseneeneees 32

ARTICLE 18 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.......c:ccscstscteeesseseeesees 34

ARTICLE 19 - TERMINATION AND CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS                                           ........ 38
### ARTICLE 1 - PREAMBLE

                This Agreement is entered into by Coos County, a political subdivision of the State of Oregon,

hereinafter referred to as the County, and by way of an order amending certification of exclusive bargaining

representative issued by the Employment Relations Board on January 18, 2006, Teamsters Local Union #223

hereinafter referred to as the Union.


                The purpose of this Agreement is to set forth the full and complete agreement concerning

collective bargaining matters including wages, hours, working conditions and other matters specified in the

Public Employee Collective Bargaining Act (PECBA).




### ARTICLE 2 - RECOGNITION

                Section 1.      The County recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining

representative with respect to collective bargaining matters for all regular full-time and regular part-time

employees set forth in Appendix A.


                The employees in the recognized bargaining unit described above shall be covered by the terms

of this Agreement only when such employees are working in classifications contained in this Agreement.         This

Agreement is not intended to cover any employee classification not specifically referred to in the prior

paragraph including supervisory, managerial, confidential, and temporary employees hired for a specific period

of time not exceeding six months of time in a calendar year. The County will not use supervisors to

permanently displace employees from regular job assignments. Nothing in this Agreement will prohibit the

County’s use of supervisors from doing work customarily performed by employees in the bargaining unit, such

as when necessaty to insure timely completion of work, to protect the safety of its employees the public or its

property, or when performing work for instructional purposes,
               Section 2.    New Positions. Any dispute concerning bargaining unit composition shall be

resolved by the Employment Relations Board.      If the County establishes a new position in the Road Department

which is not clearly excluded from the bargaining unit under ORS 243.650 or reclassifies an existing bargaining

unit position, the County shall notify the Union in writing seven (7) days following the action, as to whether or

not it believes the classification should be within the bargaining unit. The Union must notify the County in

writing within fourteen (14) days from receipt of the notification if it disagrees about the inclusion or exclusion

of the classification in the bargaining unit or the matter becomes closed. If notice of the disagreement is

received within the fourteen (14) day period, the parties shall meet within fourteen (14) days of the notification

of disagreement to discuss the matter. If an agreement is not reached within thirty (30) days of the notification

of disagreement, the Union may submit the matter to the Employment Relations Board.         Should the matter not

be submitted to the Employment Relations Board within the specified thirty (30) day period, the matter shall be

considered resolved.


               Section 3.   Definitions.


               A "Regular full-time employee" is defined as any employee who regularly works or is regularly

scheduled to work forty (40) hours per week for a period of six (6) consecutive months.


               A “Regular part-time employee" is defined as an employee who is regularly scheduled to work

less than forty (40) hours per week for six (6) consecutive months.


               A "Probationary employee" is defined as a regular full-time or regular part-time employee who,

when initially hired, serves a probationary period consisting of one year of work following initial employment

with the County. Evaluations of employees on probation will be performed a minimum of every three (3)

months,   This probationary period may be extended by mutual written agreement between the employee and the
Employer for up to an additional six month period. The Extension Agreement shall describe the reasons for

such extension and a copy will be provided to the Union.


                A “Promotional probationary employee” is defined as a regular full-time or part-time employee

who, following promotion that results in a pay increase, shall serve a probationary period consisting of six

months, and shall have their anniversary date amended to one year from the date of promotion.        This

probationary period may be extended by mutual written agreement between the employee and the Employer for

up to an additional six-month period. The Extension Agreement shall describe the reasons for such extension

and a copy will be provided to the Union. Evaluations of employees on probation will be performed a

minimum of every three (3) months.


                Employees who are promoted do not have to re-qualify for benefits. Promotional probationary

employees who are unsuccessful in the promoted position (as determined by the County) will be returned to

their previous position at the previous rate of pay.


                A "Temporary employee" is defined as an employee hired for a specific period of time not

exceeding six months in any calendar year. The parties agree that Temporary Flaggers hired through a Temp

Agency are not subject to the six-month limitation.


               The members of the bargaining unit covered by this recognition ciause and by this Agreement

shall hereinafter be referred to as the "Employees".


               “Days” for purposes of this Agreement refers to calendar days unless otherwise specified herein.


               A member of an individual’s “immediate family” for purposes of this agreement means husband,

wife, same-sex domestic partner, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,
daughter-in-law, son-in-law, father-in-law, mother-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece,

stepparent or stepchild of the individual, unless otherwise provided by law.




### ARTICLE 3 - MANAGEMENT              RIGHTS

               The County shall retain the exclusive right to exercise the customary rights and functions of

management.    The parties agree that matters not specifically contained in the body of this Agreement are

reserved as County rights.




### ARTICLE 4 - UNION SECURITY AND CHECKOFF

               Section 1 — Union Security and Checkoff


               Section 1.1   The County agrees to honor and abide by the terms of any authorization agreement

between the Union and a bargaining unit member regarding deductions for dues, fees, assessments, or other

authorized deductions to the Union and its affiliated organizations and entities.   The Union shall certify to the

County in writing the category and amount of money for each category to be deducted.


               Section 1.2 The Union will provide authorization forms for the County to distribute to employees

upon request. The Union will have opportunity during new employee orientation meetings to provide employees

with authorization forms. In the event a bargaining unit member has questions about the terms of the authorization

agreement and directs those questions to a supervisor, manager, or other agent of the County, it will advise that

member that the authorization reflects an individual agreement between that member and the Union and direct

that member to the Union to have those questions addressed.


               Section 1.3 The Union will hold the original authorization agreement and will provide a copy

which the County will retain in the employee’s personnel file.    Deductions shall begin the first full pay period
following receipt of the written, signed authorization agreement by the County.                  The County shall keep the

authorization agreement in the employee’s personnel file. The authorization shall remain in effect until and unless

an employee revokes the authorization in the manner set forth in the authorization agreement.


                 Section       1.4     The Union agrees to defend and indemnify the County for the amount of any

unauthorized deductions resulting from its reliance on information provided by the Union. The County shall not

be held liable for check off errors, but shall make proper adjustments to the Union for errors as soon as is

practicable after the error is brought to the County’s attention.


                 Section 1.5 All monies deducted pursuant to employee’s authorizations will be forwarded to the

Union with an itemized statement at no cost to the Union as soon as reasonably possible, but no later than the 10"

of each month.


                 Section 2 — Paid Work Time to Perform Certain Union Activities


                 Section 2.1          The County shall allow designated Union representatives reasonable time to engage

in the following activities during work hours and at the County’s facilities, without loss of compensation, leave

hours, or benefits:

                 (a) Investigate and process grievances and other workplace-related complaints;

                 (b) Attend investigatory meetings, hearings, and other due process proceedings;

                 (c) Participate in, or prepare for, proceedings that arise from a dispute involving the collective

                 bargaining          agreement,   including   arbitration proceedings,   administrative   hearings   and   other

                 proceedings before the Employment Relations Board;

                 (d) Prepare for and engage in collective bargaining;

                 (ce) Attend         labor-management meetings, safety committee         meetings and any other meetings

                 between representatives of the County and the Union to discuss employment relations;
               (® Provide information regarding the collective bargaining agreement to newly hired bargaining

               unit employees within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hire for a period of at least thirty

               (30) minutes, during new employee orientation or at individual/group meetings that may take place

               during work hours, without loss of compensation, leave hours, or benefits to anyone involved;

               (g) Testify in a legal proceeding in which the designated Union representative has been called or

               subpoenaed as a witness.


               Section 2.2.     The Union will identify designated representatives in writing to the County.


               Section 2.3      When feasible, designated representatives shall provide their immediate supervisor

with written notice of the need to perform the activities listed above at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the

time at which the activities will be performed.           There may be situations in which both parties agree that the

circumstances do not require advance written notice. The written notice shall indicate: (1) which of the type of

activity listed above will be performed; (2) the date and time at which the activities will be performed; and (3)

the estimated length of time the designated representative will spend performing the activities.


               Section 2.4 If, after receiving notice of the need to perform the activities listed above, the County

would experience undue burden or a significant disruption of County operations that cannot be accommodated

by any of the measures typically used when an employee is unexpectedly absent from work (arranging a substitute,

working with fewer staff, temporarily modifying work assignments, etc.), the County and Union shall schedule a

mutually agreeable date and time at which the designated representative can perform the activities during work

hours and that time shall occur within the time-frame necessary (as determined by the Union) given the

circumstances of the particular issue.


                Section   2.5     The    County   shall    not   reduce   a designated   representative’s   work   hours   to

accommodate the designated representative’s performance of the activities listed above. However, the designated
representative and his/her supervisor may agree to a flex schedule that allows the designated representative to

perform the activities above during paid work hours.


                Section 2.6     The County may refuse to authorize additional work hours that incur overtime pay

as a result of performing the activities listed above.


                Section 3 — Access to County Facilities and Equipment


                Section 3.1    At employee orientations, the County shall provide the Union with no less than thirty

(30) minutes and up to one hundred and twenty minutes (120) to make a presentation to all bargaining unit

employees without undue interference. No employee shall suffer a loss in compensation, leave hours, or benefits

as a result of participating in or attending the Union’s presentation.


                Section 3.2.   When a bargaining unit employee is hired after the employee orientation or when the

County does not conduct an orientation, the Union shall be permitted to meet with newly hired bargaining unit

employees for up to thirty (30) minutes during work hours without loss in compensation, leave hours, or benefits

for the newly hired employee or for designated representatives attending the meeting.      Unless otherwise agreed,

meetings with newly hired employees shail take place at the newly hired employee’s regular work location, within

thirty (30) calendar days from the date of hire.


                Section 3.3.    The Union shall be permitted to meet with employees during regular work hours at

their regular work location to discuss grievances, complaints, and other workplace related matters, without loss

of compensation, leave hours, or benefits to any employee, including any designated representative attending the

meeting.


                Section 3.4    The Union shail have the right to conduct Union business on County property at such

time and in a manner which does not significantly interrupt County operations, The Union shall have reasonable
access to the premises of the County for the purpose of conducting Union business including (but not limited to)

Union    meetings      and   ascertaining   whether   this   Agreement   is being   observed.    Non-employee      Union

representatives shall be permitted access to the County’s facilities for the purpose of engaging in the activities

described in this Article on the same terms and conditions as designated representatives, although it is recognized

that non-employee representatives may be restricted in some circumstances due to specific security and/or specific

safety issues.


                   Section 3.5     The County’s electronic mail system may be used by the Union for Union-related

communications, including but not limited to, communications related to collective bargaining, grievance or other

dispute investigations and governance of the Union.


                   Section 3.6    Bulletin Board. The County Agrees to furnish and maintain a suitable bulletin board

in a convenient place to be used by the Union.        The Union shall limit its posting of notices and bulletins strictly

to Union business on such bulletin Board.


                   Section 4 — Right to Receive Employee Information


                   Section 4.1    The County shall provide the Union with an editable Excel spreadsheet containing

the following information for each employee in the bargaining unit;

    a.   The employee’s name and date of hire;

    b.   Contact information, including:

          e      Cellular, home and work telephone numbers;
          e      Personal and work electronic mail addresses; and
          e      Home or personal mailing addresses; and


    c.   Employment information including the employee’s job title, salary and worksite location.


                   Section 4.2.   The County shall provide the information within ten (10) calendar days from the date

of hire for newly hired employees and every one-hundred twenty (120) calendar days for employees in the
bargaining unit who are not newly hired.


               Section 4.3 The County agrees to notify the Union of bargaining unit members who leave County

employment. The notice shall contain the name of employee and effective dates and shall occur within ten (10)

calendar days of the separation.


               Section 5 - Labor and Management Meetings


               Section 5.1 If requested by either party, the County and the Union each agree to hold labor and

management meetings at least once per calendar year (and more often if the parties agree to meet) to discuss any

matters pertinent to maintaining good employer/employee relationships; the annual meeting may be cancelled by

mutual agreement. The meeting(s) will occur at a mutually convenient time and place.


### ARTICLE 5 - WAGE RATES

               Section 1. Current Wage Rates and Classifications. The wage rates as shown in Exhibit A,

which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, reflect a “6-step” compensation chart. Each

member will be on one of the steps in the compensation chart,


               Effective July 1, 2024, wages in all classifications shall increase by 9%.


               Effective July 1, 2025, wages in all classifications shall increase by 2.5%.


               Effective July 1, 2026, wages in all classifications shail increase by 2.5%.


               For the purpose of wages and accrued benefits, the date of accrual shall be the first day of the

month for employees hired between the first and the fourteenth day of the month, and the first day of the

following month for those employees hired between the fifteenth and the thirty-first day of the month.
                  When any new classification is established, the County shall set the wage rate and notify the

Union. The parties shall negotiate such wage rates if notice of the Union’s demand to bargain is delivered to the

County within fourteen (14) days after the County has set the rate.


                  Tn the event that the contract ratification and implementation occur after June 30, 2024, the

parties agree that all compensation, benefits, and contribution increases shall be retroactive to July 1, 2024.


                   Annually, all members will have the opportunity for a merit-step increase on the member’s

anniversary date of hire or most recent promotion (which resulted in a pay increase). Merit step increases are

conditioned on a satisfactory performance review, which is defined as an overal] performance rating of average

or above. Any merit-step increase that is denied will be subject to Article 17, Settlement of Disputes. If the

member is not provided a performance review by the end of the month of their anniversary date, the member

will automatically receive a merit-step increase. Supervisors will notify employees of any unsatisfactory work

performance that would jeopardize a satisfactory performance evaluation prior to any performance evaluation.

The notice will provide specific examples of unsatisfactory performance and will advise the employee of the

specific corrective measures that will allow for a satisfactory evaluation and provide time and resources to allow

the employee an opportunity to accomplish the required corrective measures. Performance evaluations shall be

based on an objective, consistent and verifiable system to ensure compliance with the Oregon Pay Equity Law.



                  Section 2. Bracket Adjustments.    No adjustments in pay may be made by the County during the

term of this Agreement to individual job classifications, except whenever two or more of the following facts are

found to exist:


                  1.     increased or decreased job responsibility;

                  2.     increased or decreased hazards or risks in performing job;
               3.      increased or decreased skill to operate new equipment; and

               4,      the bracket increase or decrease is approved by a majority of the total Union membership
                       and the Board of Commissioners.

               The parties agree to negotiate mid-term changes on mandatory subjects of bargaining pursuant to

PECBA.


                Section 3. Working Out of Class.     | Except when assignment to another classification is for the

purpose of training and skills development, whenever an employee is required to work in a classification other

than that in which the employee is classified, the employee shail be paid for such work at the rate in which he or

she would be entitled as if being promoted to that position, or the employee’s regular rate of pay, whichever is

higher. Employees shall be compensated at the higher rate of pay for working out of class for the entire shift in

which an employee performs such work for at least half of the shift. Any employee who is required to work in

a classification for training and development purposes shail be informed in writing of the purpose and length of

the assignment, and shail be compensated at his/her regular rate of pay during the entire length of the

assignment; the training and development assignment will be limited to a reasonable length of time as is

necessary for the training and development to occur. Except when assignment to another classification is for

the purpose of training and skills development, temporary assignment to other classifications shall be made on

the basis of operational needs, staff availability, the employee’s qualifications and performance, and seniority.

Parties agree that this Section is subject to Article 17, Settlement of Disputes.


                Section 4. Temporary Lead Worker Premium Pay.          A temporary lead worker is an employee

who, in addition to his/her regular duties, has been assigned in writing by his/her supervisor of the requirement

to perform duties of a lead worker.   Such duties include, but are not necessarily limited to: 1) new employee

orientation; 2) assignment and reassignment of tasks necessary to accomplish work efficiently; 3) providing

direction to workers concerning work practices; 4) training employees; 5) review and evaluation of work of
employees for conformance to standards; 6) providing assessments of employee performance to supervisors; 7)

other duties as may be assigned. Assignment of Temporary Lead Worker responsibilities shall be made in the

sole discretion of the County and may be removed at any time. Employees assigned temporary lead worker

responsibilities above shall receive an additional ten percent (10%)   added to their base wage for the entire shift

in which any such work is performed.


               Employees at their discretion may decline temporary lead worker assignments.

               Section 5. Safety Coordinator Premium Pay. A Safety Coordinator is an employee who, in

       addition to his/her regular duties, has been assigned in writing by his/her supervisor of the requirement

       to perform duties of Safety Coordinator.    Such duties include, but are not necessarily limited to: 1)

       documenting safety related training for all employees; 2) assignment and reassignment of required

       safety training(s); 3) providing direction to workers concerning safety; 4) review and evaluation of

       employees for conformance to safety standards; 5) attendance at safety committee meetings; 6) other

       safety related duties as may be assigned. Assignment of Safety Coordinator responsibilities shall be

       made in the sole discretion of the County and may be removed at any time. Employees assigned safety

       coordinator responsibilities above shall receive an additional ten percent (10%) added to their base wage

       for the entire shift in which any such work is performed.   Employees at their discretion may decline

       safety coordinator assignments.

               Section 6. Hazardous Duty Pay. An employee who is required to work on or around a pile wall

       construction project for the following duties: driving pilings, cutting/placing guardrails, and placing

       fabric, shall be paid a hazardous duty premium of five percent (5%) of their base wage for all hours

       worked, rounded to the highest full hour.
### ARTICLE 6 - EMPLOYEES BENEFIT PLAN

                Section La,   Health Insurance.


        The County will contribute towards the cost of the following medical, dental and vision Insurance
coverage:

                i, Medical -Teamsters (OTET) G/W Plan.

                2. Dental - Teamsters (OTET) D-5 Plan

                3. Vision - Teamsters (OTET) V-4 Plan


        Effective July 1, 2024 and any year thereafter covered by this contract, the County’s contribution

toward health, vision, and dental, insurance will not exceed $1,700.00 per month per eligible employee.


        Except as otherwise agreed to in this Article, the individual employee shall be responsible for

paying any additional costs over the above stated County contributions, and the County is hereby

authorized to advance such sum(s) for the express purpose of premium payment and then to make

automatic payroll deductions from the earnings of any and ali covered employees for reimbursement to

the County of any such advances.


        Section |.b. Eligibility for Health Insurance. All regular full-time and regular part-time

employees who had eighty (80) compensable hours or more per month, excluding temporary employees

as previously defined, shall be eligible for health insurance on the first day of the month following the

first month in which the employee had eighty (80) compensable hours or more. For the purpose of this

section, “compensable hours” includes hours worked (excluding overtime) and hours the employee was

away from work on approved paid leave. For the purposes of this section, accrued leave paid in a lump

sum to an employee at the time of separation from employment shall not be considered as “compensable

hours” and shall not be used as the basis for health benefit eligibility.
               Section |.c. Individual Health Care Account Effective July 1, 2017, the County shail contribute

       $100.00 each month to a tax exempt Individual Health Reimbursement Account or VEBA account to be

       mutually agreed upon and administered by a third party for all regular full-time and regular part-time

       employees who had eighty (80) compensable hours per month or more and who have established

       eligibility under Section 1.b above.


                Section 2. Workers’ Compensation.    The County agrees to be insured under the provisions of the

Oregon State Workers’ Compensation Law.


                Section 3. Supplemental Insurance. Employees receiving Workers' Compensation shall be able

to use supplemental insurance for a period of up to 26 weeks and their sick leave or any other paid leave to

receive up to 100% of their net monthly amount.


                Section 4. Long Term Disability Insurance.   The County shall maintain insurance coverage for

Employees on Workers! Compensation and/or Social Security for a period of five (5) years after the first six (6)

months of disability at a rate of sixty (60%) percent of his or her base monthly pay up to a maximum of five

thousand dollars ($5,000).


                Section 5. Life Insurance. The County shall provide a $5,000.00 (five thousand dollar) life

insurance policy.


                Section 6. Retirement Plan, The County will continue to participate in the Public Employees

Retirement System (PERS). Effective July 1, 2017, for the life of this agreement, the County shall pick up the

six percent (6%) employee contribution to PERS, OPSERP, or the [AP program as directed by legislative rules.

Should the Oregon Legislature eliminate or redirect the employee six percent (6%) contribution, the union may

re-open this section for bargaining.
                   Section 7, Retirement Cash-outs,   Employees who are retiring are allowed to cash-out some or

all of their banked accruals that are available for cash-out (including but not limited to comp time under Article

12, vacation leave under Article 8 and sick leave under Article 9) to be paid in a separate check for up to 90

days prior to their retirement date. The cash-out request must be in writing, including notification of the

retirement date.


                   Employees who request cash-out of accruals must sign an acknowledgement which will include

the following information:


                   “Employees who request to cash-out accruals under this ‘early’ cash-out concept may not rescind

or change the retirement date without the County’s written consent, except if the cancellation or changed date

happens prior to the payment of those funds.


                   The parties do not control how retirement calculations are made by PERS, and cashing out leave

accruals may impact the retirement benefits earned by employees (e.g., the ability for Tier 1 and Tier 2

employees to utilize unused sick leave on retirement). Employees must do their own research and, by requesting

the cash-outs, the employees accept responsibility for their decisions and the impacts on retirement calculations.

PERS provides resources for employees on its website that may be useful in making an informed decision.”


### ARTICLE 7 - HOLIDAYS

                   All Employees shall be entitled to take the following legal and floating holidays with pay:


                   New Year's Day                Martin Luther King Day

                   President's Day               Memorial Day

                   Fourth of July                Labor Day

                   Veteran's Day                 Thanksgiving Day

                   Christmas Day                 Christmas Eve
               After ninety (90) calendar days of employment from the date of hire, two floating holidays will

be granted to regular full-time employee(s), Regular full-time employees with fifteen (15) years of service with

the County are eligible for one (1) additional floating holiday. If a holiday falls on an employee’s scheduled

day off, whenever possible, as determined by the department head, the nearest succeeding or preceding work

day shall be observed as the holiday. If the Department is unable to schedule the holiday in this manner, then it

shall be observed on a day mutually agreeable to the employee and the Department.        In order to be eligible for

holiday pay, an employee must work the scheduled day before and the scheduled day after such holiday or be

on paid leave (as that term is defined in this Agreement). Should an Employee be called to work on any of these

holidays, he or she shai! be paid an amount of money as holiday pay equivalent to eight (8) hours at his or her

regular wage rate if the employee is working five (5) eight (8) hour shifts, or ten (10 hours at his or her regular

wage rate if the employee is working four (4) ten (10) hours shifts. In addition, he or she will be paid one and

one-half (1-1/2) times his or her normal hourly wage rate for each hour or part of an hour worked on the

holiday.


               All floating holidays must be taken during each fiscal year or they will be forfeited. The

Roadmaster and the Employee will schedule a mutually convenient time for observance of the floating holidays.


### ARTICLE 8 - VACATIONS

               Section J. All Employees who have worked for the County for less than five (5) continuous

years shall earn eight (8) hours paid vacation leave for each month in which he or she works or is on paid leave

for 128 hours or more. Probationary employees shall be credited with vacation leave, as if accrued from date of

hire by the County, upon completion of six months from date of hire.


               Section 2. Any Employee who has worked for the County for at least five (5) continuous years

but less than ten (10) continuous years shall earn ten (10) hours paid vacation leave for each month in which he

or she works or is on paid leave for 128 hours or more.
               Section 3. Any Employee who has worked for the County for at least ten (10) continuous years

but less than fifteen (15) continuous years shall earn twelve (12) hours paid vacation leave for each month in

which he or she works or is on paid leave for 128 hours or more.


               Section 4. Any Employee who has worked for the County for at least fifteen (15) continuous

years but less than twenty (20) continuous years shall earn fourteen (14) hours paid vacation leave for each

month he or she works or is on paid {eave for 128 hours or more.


               Section 5. Any employee who has worked for the County for at least twenty (20) continuous

years shall earn sixteen (16) hours paid vacation leave for each month he or she works or is on paid leave for

128 hours or more.


               Section 6. No Employee shal] accumulate more than 360 hours of paid vacation leave.

Vacations may be taken at any time when earned by mutual agreement between the Employee and his or her

supervisor or by arrangement with the Roadmaster.


               Section 7. Holidays occurring during an Employee's scheduled vacation period shall not be

charged against his or her vacation feave.


               Section 8. Employees who separate from County employment for any reason including death of

the employee, shail be compensated for accrued unused vacation leave at their normal hourly wage rate.

Employees leaving County service prior to completion of six months shall not be entitled to any compensation

for.accrued vacation hours.


               Section 9. All authorized leave taken as a part of the employee’s continuous service shall be

counted for the purpose of determining the employee's accrual rate. The employee shall accrue vacation leave

when on paid leave, providing that the employee returns to work at the end of such leave.
### ARTICLE 9 - SICK LEAVE

                Section 1. Accrual. Employees shall accrue sick leave at the regular rates of pay, and at the rate

of ten (10) hours per month for each month in which he or she works and/or is on paid leave for 128 hours or

more,



                Section 2. Maximum Accrual and Payment.         An employee may accumulate an unlimited amount

of sick leave. Sick leave is provided by the County solely in the nature of insurance against loss of income due

to the reasons covered in Section 3 of this article. No compensation for accrued sick leave shall be provided for

any employee for any other purpose, except as provided herein, Employees who separate from County

employment for any reason including death of the employee, but excluding punitive dismissal, shall be

compensated for twenty-five percent (25%) of up to nine hundred-sixty hours (960) of their accrued unused sick

leave at their norma! hourly wage rate. Employees leaving County service prior to completion of six months

shall not be entitled to any compensation for accrued unused sick leave hours.


                Section 3. Utilization.   Sick leave may be used by an employee for any purpose that is consistent

with the Oregon’s Sick Time Act or any other reason allowed by law. Sick leave may be used because of death

(after exhaustion of bereavement leave), or critical illness in the employee's family requiring the attendance of

the employee.


                An employee may be required to furnish satisfactory evidence of illness, consistent with state

and federal law. Any Employee who fraudulently obtains sick leave in violation of this Article shall be subject

to disciplinary action(s) which may include, but is not necessarily limited to termination.


                Except in circumstances beyond the control of an employee (such as a traffic accident),

employees shall provide the County with advance notice of the need to use sick leave. Such notice shall in no
case be less than | hour prior to the beginning of the employee’s next scheduled work shift. For scheduled sick

leave (such as medical appointments, surgery), employees must notify the County of the need for sick leave as

soon as practical after they schedule the appointment.   Failure to follow the notice requirements shall result in

disciplinary action.


### ARTICLE 10 - OTHER LEAVES

                Section |. Unpaid Leaves of Absence.      The Roadmaster may, in his sole discretion and upon

request, allow any Employee to take up to two (2) weeks unpaid leave of absence. Any additional unpaid leave

of absence must be approved by the Coos County Board of Commissioners.


                Leaves of absence without pay for a limited period may be granted by the Board of County

Commissioners for any reason which the Board deems to be reasonable. Such leaves may, at the discretion of

the Board, be renewed or extended for any period. Such leaves shall not be approved for any Employee who is

accepting other employment, except as otherwise provided in this article.


                Except as required by section 8 of this article or by law, payment of any insurance premiums or

other Employee benefits during any such leave of absence in excess of two (2) weeks, including the County's

portion, shall be the Employee's sole responsibility and the County shal} not be required to make any such

payments. Seniority will not continue to accrue during unpaid leaves exceeding two (2) weeks in duration,

unless required by law.


                Section 2. Jury Duty; Miscellaneous Duties. An Employee shail be granted a leave of absence

with pay for:


                A.        Service on one jury term in any consecutive twenty-four (24) calendar month period,

provided that: the salary paid to the Employee for the period of absence shall be reduced by the amount of

money received as statutory juror’s fees, not including amounts received as expenses which are authorized by
statute, The County and the employee may opt for the employee to endorse the jury fee check and the County

will deposit the check and return the mileage to the employee. No reduction is then made to the employee's

paycheck.   For any period during the term of the jury when the Employee has been excused by the court from

service as a juror, the Employee will report immediately to his or her immediate supervisor and shall be

considered available for working during that period.


               B.      Attendance in court in connection with an Employee's officially assigned duties,

including the time going to the court and returning to his headquarters.


               Cc.     Other authorized duties in connection with County business.


               D.      Regular salary shall be allowed to those Employees who are unable to report for their

regular duties because of natural disasters beyond their control, because they are needed to work for the safety

of their family or to prevent property damage, or to help with rescue work to save life and property. This policy

shall be effective only when the Board of Commissioners has declared that an actual emergency exists, and

upon approval by the employee’s department head or supervisor.


               Nothing in this Section shall require the County to pay an Employee for any appearance in a

capacity adverse to the County when such appearance is related to an action initiated by an Employee or the

Union.


               Section 3. Bereavement Leave. Bereavement leave shall be granted as required by Oregon

Revised Statutes. In addition, in the event of a death in his/her immediate family, an employee shall be entitled

to three (3) working days paid compassionate leave to be used concurrently with leave required under Oregon

Revised Statutes. Such leave may be extended, with the approval of the Department Head to five (5) working

days. It shall be the duty of the employee to notify his/her supervisor of a pending absence.
                For the purpose of this Articie, immediate family shall be defined as per Coos County Personnel

Policies and Procedures, and shall have the same meaning as family member.         In the event that Oregon Bureau

of Labor and Industries (BOLI) statutory bereavement leave guidelines are more beneficial to the employee, the

BOLI guidelines shall be used.


                Section 4. Military Service,


                Military leave, alternative service and Peace Corps leave shail be granted as required by Oregon

Revised Statutes and Federal law. Employees may use accrued vacation and compensatory time for official

military leave in excess of the employer-paid time provided by statute.


                Section 5. Union Leave.    The County shall provide for a total of two hundred forty (240) hours

per year unpaid leave to be distributed by the Union amongst its members for Union business, provided that

such leave is approved by the Roadmaster or a supervisor and that use of this leave shall not interfere with the

efficient operation of the County.   Such leave will not impact eligibility for holiday under Article 7.


                Section 6. On-the-Job Injury. Unless otherwise required by law, employees off work due to an

on-the-job injury incurred as a result of their employment with the County and receiving time loss benefits

shall:


                A.     Continue to acerue seniority while off work from the beginning of the leave due to the

on-the-job injury.


                B.     Be eligible for reimbursement of COBRA contributions for a period of six (6) months

after the employee has applied for and exhausted all “wavier of premium” periods available. In order to be

eligible for this benefit, an employee must apply for a waiver of premium at the beginning of the on the job

injury.
                  C.        To the extent permitted by applicable law, an employee on a short-term disability or an

employee off work as a result of a workers' compensation injury shall not accrue vacation or other benefits

during the period of such leave, unless otherwise supplementing such leave with paid time off.


               dD.          An employee on leave as a result of a worker’s compensation injury shall not be required

to use accrued leave benefits for follow up medical appointments related to that injury.


                  Section 7. Family Medical Leave. Family Medical leave of absence shail be as required by

relevant State and Federal statutes and County Personnel Policies and Procedures. An employee must use

accrued sick, vacation and compensatory time during such leave consistent with the County Personnel Policies

and Procedures,        Leave in excess of that allowed by statute may be granted by the County.



### ARTICLE 11 - WORK DAY —- WORK WEEK

                  Section 1. Work Week. The basic work week shall be 12:01 AM Monday through the following

Sunday and consist of forty (40) hours in a seven (7) day period.


                  Section 2. Work Schedule. A regular work schedule shall fall between Monday and Friday, and

shal! consist of five (5) consecutive days of eight (8) hours work followed by two (2) days off, or four (4)

consecutive days of ten (10) hours work followed by three (3) consecutive days off, except in emergency

situations when a temporary, short term schedule is needed to meet operational needs.


                  Section 3. Changes in Work Schedules. Any changes in the work schedule other than those

stated in section 2 above shall be subject to bargaining.


                  Section 4.    Meal Periods. An unpaid thirty (30) minute meal period will be scheduled

approximately mid-point in the work day. An employee required to stand watch and remain on the job at their

workstation for their full shift period shall be permitted to take a paid meal period, not to exceed thirty (30)
minutes, when and as their duties permit. An employee who is required to return to work during a scheduled

meal period and whose meal period is not rescheduled shail be paid for the meal period. With the approval of

management and as established         by or at the beginning of each shift, employees may voluntarily elect to

work through their unpaid 30-minute lunch period during their normal work shift.               In such cases, those

employees electing to work through their lunch period will be allowed to leave work 30 minutes earlier

than scheduled and shall be paid for the full work shift.       Road Crew consisting of two or more at a job site

must unanimously agree to this arrangement. Approval will not be unreasonably denied and all

employees will have the same opportunities to utilize this option.


                  Section 5. Rest Periods.   Ail Employees' work schedules shall provide for a fifteen (15) minute

rest period during each one-half shift. Rest periods shall be scheduled at the middle of each one-half shift

whenever feasible. Without supervisory approval, the rest period shall not be taken at the beginning or end of a

work period or combined with a meal period. Rest periods not granted or granted and not used shall not be

accumulated or result in additional pay. Rest periods shali be granted unless operational necessity requires that

they be denied.


                  Section 6. Time off Requests. Requests for time (vacation, floating holidays, and compensation

time off) off may be submitted no more than | year in advance. The total time of requests approved for any

employee shail not exceed an employee’s reasonably projected leave balances at the time(s) the leave will

occur. Requests for time off shall be approved or denied by the employee’s supervisor on the basis of the

operational needs of the County.     All time off requests shall be approved on a first come, first serve basis. In

the event that two or more employees request the same time off on the same day, the senior employee(s) shall

have preference for the time off.
### ARTICLE 12 - OVERTIME

               Section 2. Overtime Assignment


               Section 1. Overtime Pay. Employees shall be paid one and one-half (1-1/2) times their regular

straight time hourly rate of pay for all authorized hours of work in excess of eight (8) or ten (10) hours per day

(depending upon the employee’s regularly scheduled work schedule) and also for all authorized hours of work

in excess of forty (40) hours in a work week. Paid time off shall not count toward hours worked for purposes of

overtime eligibility. In all cases where an employee is voluntarily working a mutuaily agreed upon schedule

involving abnormal start/quit times, or different shift lengths at the employees’ request, the employee shall only

be eligible for overtime after having worked 40 hours in a work week.


               Section 2. Overtime Assignment       Overtime work shall be assigned to employees who have

signed the monthly overtime availability sheet and on the basis of operational needs, staff availability, the

employee’s qualifications and performance, and seniority.


               Section 3. Call Back Time. Employees called back after they have completed their work day

shall be guaranteed a minimum of two (2) hours of pay at one and one-half (1-1/2) times their normal wage rate.

Overtime that is contiguous to an employee’s shift will not be eligible for call back premium.    The County and

the employee need to work together to maintain as safe as possible work environment. Therefore, the number of

overtime hours will be monitored by the County and restricted in instances where the County determines it to be

unsafe for the employee to continue working.


               Section 4. Overtime Notification. Upon request, the County shall make available a list of all

overtime submitted by employees in the previous three-month period.


               Section 5. Compensatory Time Off       In instances when an employee is eligible for overtime pay,

with the approval of management, the employee may elect to receive compensatory time off in lieu of pay.
Accrued compensatory time may not exceed) seventy (70) hours. The parties agree that the scheduling of

compensatory time off must be done at a time that is mutually agreeable between the parties. The parties agree

that a request for compensatory time off is unduly burdensome and may be rejected by the County if it would

result in additional overtime to cover the shift. Any accrued and unused compensatory time in excess of 20

hours that an employee may have on June 15 of each year shall be paid to the employee at the employce’s

regular rate of pay with the June paycheck.


### ARTICLE 13 - SENIORITY

                Section 1. Definition.    Seniority is defined as the Employee's length of continuous paid service

since his or her last date of hire with the Department as adjusted for approved, unpaid leaves of absence (except

when adjustments for unpaid leaves are prohibited by law.


                Section 2. Application.    Seniority will govern in the area of layoff except where special

occupational skills are required. Special occupational skills are those requiring certification and/or training that

cannot reasonably be acquired on the job during a trial period.    Seniority will also apply as set forth in

Articlel4, Section 3, pertaining to filling of vacancies.


                Section 3. Loss of Seniority. Seniority shall be lost when an Employee:


                A.      quits

                B.      retires

               Cc.      is discharged

                D.       is off work for a period in excess of two years or fails to report to work within fifteen
                         (15) calendar days after having been recalled, unless otherwise required by law.

               E.       accepts a position outside the bargaining unit
               Section 4. Seniority List. The County shall compile and post the Employee seniority list on the

Department bulletin board on July 1 and January | of each year. Employees have 45 days to check the list and

make known to the Office Manager any corrections necessary.



### ARTICLE 14 - FILLING OF VACANCIES

               Section 1, Regular Vacancy.     A regular vacancy is created when the County creates a new

regular position in the bargaining unit or when an existing regular position in the bargaining unit is vacated and

the County determines to refill that position. Any Employee may bid for a vacancy.


               Section 2, Posting. Notice of regular vacancies shail be posted on the bulletin board for at least

seven (7) calendar days prior to being filled. The County may temporarily fill these positions during the

recruitment period.


               Section 3. Filling of Vacancies.    Any Employee may bid for a vacancy, Preference will be given

to Employees bidding for a vacancy based on seniority, qualifications, work history, and any special

occupational skills necessary.   In all cases the County shall employ the applicant with preference status, unless

another applicant, whether from within the Department, from within the County or from without, is more

qualified to perform the duties and responsibilities of the position than the applicant of preference. The County

retains all rights to determine the method and means of selection and to determine the individuals to fill

vacancies. The County’s determination shall not be arbitrary or capricious.


               Section 4. Trial Period. An Employee who is selected to fill a vacancy shall have up to a thirty

(30) working day trial period during which time the Employee may move back to his or her previous position or

be moved back to his or her previous position by management with no forfeiture of rights in his or her previous

position.


               Section 5. Wage Upon Filling Vacancy. When a current bargaining unit member is selected to fill
a vacancy in a position with a higher classification or the position is reclassified upward, the employee shal! be

placed in the new classification at least at the salary step with the pay closest to, but not lower than, the employee’s

previous rate of pay.


                Section 6. Lower Classification.     If an employee is moved to a lower classification for reasons

that do not reflect discredit on their employment record, or if their position is reclassified downward, their salary

rate shall remain the same except that it will be capped at the maximum rate for the new classification.




### ARTICLE 15 - LAYOFFS

                If the County determines the need for a reduction in its work force, at least four (4) weeks prior

notice shall be given to the Employees to be laid off. While the County reserves the right to determine the

positions to be eliminated, layoffs shall be by strict application of seniority except in those areas where special

occupational skills are required, of which the Union shall be fully apprised in advance.


                Employees subject to layoff shall have the right to "bump" any Employee with less seniority in

any other position, provided he or she possesses the necessary skills and physical ability to perform the work.


                If the Union feels that the special occupational skills/ability criteria have been made in an

arbitrary and/or capricious manner, the Union shall have recourse to the provisions of the Grievance procedure.


                No regular full-time or regular part-time Employees shall be laid off until all probationary,

temporary and training program employees, except within the special occupational skills category, have been

laid off.


                Employees who are laid off shall be placed on a layoff list for two (2) years and be recalled in

the reverse order they were laid off as openings for which they meet the minimum qualifications become
available. No new employees will be hired into classifications for which Employees are laid off and for which

they remain qualified. This restriction, however, does not apply when probationary employees are {aid off.


                Employees will be notified of the open positions by certified mail return receipt requested, sent

to the last address given by the Employee to the County Personnel Office. The Employee will have fifteen (15)

calendar days from the postmark date of such notice to notify the Roadmaster of his or her intention to return on

the date specified by the County. Failure to respond timely shall be considered as an immediate voluntary

resignation. Any time spent on layoff status shall be considered for the purpose of this Agreement the same as

leave without pay.


                               ARTICLE 16 ~- DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE

                Section 1.     Reprimands will be done in a manner that will not embarrass the Employee in

front of other Employees or the public.


                The County will not suspend or dismiss any non-probationary Employee without just cause. The

Employee and his or her Union representative, unless the Employee requests otherwise, will be immediately

notified in writing that the Employee has been suspended or discharged.


                The Union and/or Employee shall have the right to take up the suspension and/or discharge at

Step 2 of the Grievance procedure. This article does not apply to probationary employees.


                Section 2.     In the event the County has made a decision to discharge a regular status

employee, a written pre-dismissal notice shall be given to the employee.    Such notice shall include the known

complaint(s), facts and charges, and a statement that the employee may be dismissed. The employee shall be

afforded an opportunity to request all substantiating documentation the County used to make its decision and an

opportunity to refute such charges or to present mitigating circumstances to the County at a time and date set

forth in the notice.
                The date for such a hearing shall not be less than seven (7) calendar days from the date the notice

was incurred, unless an earlier time is requested by the employee or the Union, and agreed to by the County and

the Union,   The employee shall be permitted to have an official Union Representative present. The County may

place the employee on Administrative Leave or suspend the employee with or without pay, or the employee

may be allowed to continue to work, as specified within the pre-dismissal notice.


                Section 3. Disciplinary Work Plan.    When a work plan is utilized in conjunction with any step

of the disciplinary process, the employee will be allowed to review and provide input concerning the work plan

before it becomes effective.   The employee may request Union representation during the development of the

work plan. The work plan shall contain the enumerated deficiency(ies), the employer’s and the employee’s

responsibilities for improvement, and definite timelines.


                Section 4. Just Cause Standard.   For the purpose of this Agreement, just cause shall be

determined in accordance with the following guidelines:


                1.     The employee shali have some warning of the consequences of his/her conduct, unless

the conduct is of such a nature that no prior warning is necessary in the eyes of a reasonable person;


                2.     Ifa rule or order is the subject of the alleged misconduct, it must be reasonable and

applied evenhandedly, if appropriate;


                3,     A reasonable investigation must be conducted;


                4.     It must be determined that the employee is guilty of the alleged misconduct or act by a

preponderance of the evidence;


                5.     The discipline must be appropriate based upon the severity of the misconduct or the

actual or likely impact the misconduct has or would have on the County's operations;
                 6.        The employee's past employment record shall be considered, if appropriate based upon

the severity of the act.


### ARTICLE 17 - SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES

                 Section 1. Grievance and Arbitration Procedure. The grievance and arbitration procedure shall

be limited to the meaning, interpretation or application of this Agreement and any alleged violation of its terms.

In the event of a grievance concerning a disciplinary issue, an individual who does not wish the Union to pursue

a grievance may notify the Union in writing at any time. An employee remains free to consult with a Union

representative at any point during the grievance process. An employee’s exercise of the right to not pursue a

grievance shail not constitute a precedent with regard to the substance of the discipline and/or grievance in

question.


                 Section 2. Manner of Resolving Disputes.


                 The term “working days” means weekdays and excludes Saturdays, Sundays, and the specific

holidays listed under Article 7.


                 STEP 1.          After first attempting to resolve the grievance informally, the Union, or any

Employee with notice to the Union may claim a breach of this Agreement in writing to the Employee's

immediate supervisor within ten (10) working days from the occurrence. The notice shall include: (1) a

statement of the grievance and relevant facts; (2) the provision of the contract violated; and (3) the remedy

sought. The supervisor shall respond to the grievance in writing within five (5) working days, with a copy to the

Union.


                 STEP 2.          If, after five (5) working days from the date of submission of the grievance to the

supervisor, the grievance remains unadjusted, the grievance may be submitted in writing within ten (10)

working days to the Roadmaster or his designee. The Roadmaster or his designee shail discuss the grievance
with the Union and/or the affected Employee. If no settlement is reached the Roadmaster or his designee shall

give his or her written answer to the Union within ten (10) working days following their meeting.


                STEP 3.        If the grievance is not settled in Step 2 and the Union desires to appeal, the Union

shall submit the grievance to the Board of Commissioners or their designee within ten (10) working days of

receipt of the Roadmaster's answer. A meeting between the Board of Commissioners or their designee and the

Union shall be held at a time mutually agreeable to the parties within ten (10) working days of the Union's

appeal to the Board.


                If the grievance is settled as a result of such meeting, the settlement will be reduced to writing

and signed by both parties. If no settlement is reached the Board of Commissioners or their designee shall give

the Union its written answer within ten (10) working days following the meeting.


                STEP 4.        Ifthe grievance is not settled in accordance with the foregoing procedure the

Union may refer the grievance to binding arbitration within ten (10) working days after receipt of the Board's

answer or within ten (10) working days of the expiration of the time allocated for the Board of Commissioners

or their designee to provide their written answer (ten (10) working days).


                The arbitration proceeding shall be conducted by an arbitrator to be selected by the County and

the Union. If the Union and the County cannot agree on an arbitrator within five (5) working days of the notice

of arbitration, a list of thirteen (13) arbitrators shall be requested from the Oregon Employment Relations Board

by the Union.   Only those arbitrators who are also on the Northwest A.A.A. panel shall be provided by E.R.B.

Both the County and the Union shall have the right to strike six (6) names from the panel.     The party requesting

arbitration shall strike the first name, the other party shall then strike one name. The process will be repeated

and the remaining person shall be the arbitrator. The moving party will notify the arbitrator.
               The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding upon the parties, and the arbitrator shall

be requested to issue his or her decision within thirty (30) working days after the conclusion of testimony and

argument. The arbitrator may interpret this Agreement and apply it to a particular case under consideration but

shall have no authority to add to, subtract from or modify the terms of the Agreement.


                The cost of arbitration shall be shared equally by the parties. However, each party shall be

responsible for compensating its own representatives and witnesses in arbitration. If either party desires a

verbatim record of the proceedings, that party may cause such a record to be made.       A party wishing a copy of

the record may agree to split the costs incurred to create the record.


                Section 3. Time Limitations. Any time limitations specified in the grievance procedure may be

waived by mutual consent of the parties. Otherwise, all parties subject to these procedures shall be bound to the

time limits contained herein. If either party fails to follow such limits, the following shall result:


                A.      If the grievant fails to respond in a timely fashion, the grievance shall be deemed waived.


                B.      If the party grieved against fails to respond in a timely fashion, the grievance shall

proceed to the next step.


                The Employee shall have the right to be represented by the Union at any step level of the

grievance procedure. No Employee shall be required to discuss an unresolved grievance with management in

the absence of a Union official if the Employee requests Union representation,




### ARTICLE 18 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

                Section 1, Bulletin Boards.   Announcements, all new and existing work rules and work policies,

and the Employee seniority lists, shall be posted on the Department bulletin boards, The parties may each use
the Department bulletin boards for notices of a routine nature and agree not to post denunciatory or

inflammatory written materials on such bulletin boards,


                Section 2. Safety and Health. The County shall provide equipment to Employees which it has

determined to be adequate and safe for the purposes for which it is to be used. No Employee shall be required

to operate unsafe equipment or to perform a work assignment that would cause him or her imminent danger and

is reasonably considered unsafe. Any questions concerning the safety of equipment shall be immediately

referred to the employee’s immediate supervisor        and shall not be subject to Article!7, "Settlement of

Disputes.”


                Section 3. Savings Clause.       Should any provision of this Agreement be found to be in violation

of any federal, state or local law or ordinance by a court of competent jurisdiction, ail other provisions of this

Agreement shall remain in full force and effect for the duration of this Agreement.


                Section 4. Call in Time. If an Employee without prior notice reports to work at his or her

regular shift and is sent home for lack of work, he or she will be paid for four (4) hours at the rate to which he

or she would be entitled for his or her shift.


                Section 5. No Discrimination.       The parties to this Agreement agree not to discriminate against

any person because of race, disability, religion, national origin, color, political affiliation, gender, or any other

status protected by County policy or law and that all Employees will receive the full protection of the provisions

of this Agreement. The Union may pursue discrimination complaints either through the contract grievance

procedure including Step 4 (Arbitration) or through an applicable outside agency, but not both. The parties

agree that the labor agreement will not serve to restrict the County’s obligation to comply with federal and state

law concerning its duty to reasonably accommodate individuals with disabilities.
               Section 6. Uniforms.    The County will furnish coverall rental services for Employees as

determined by management.     For employees who are required to wear safety boots or shoes, the county shall

provide $300 per fiscal year for such footwear.   This benefit shall be payable in a lump sum in the first full pay

period in each July of this agreement. For the purposes of this Article, the term “safety footwear” shall not

require the purchase of steel-toed footwear.


               Section 7, Severance Pay. Employees, other than probationary employees, laid off by the

County for reasons other than seasonal layoffs or punitive dismissals shall be entitled to severance pay

equivalent to forty (40) hours of pay at their regular wage rate. As a condition of severance, an employee must

be willing to enter a separation agreement releasing the County from any and all claims or liability that might

have otherwise arisen out of the employment relationship.


               Section 8. Longevity. Any Employee who has worked continuously for the Department for five

(5) years or more will receive a 3% longevity increase on the base wage.


               Any Employee who has worked continuously for the Department for ten (10) years or more will

receive an additional 3% increase on the base wage.


               Any Employee who has worked continuously for the County for twenty (20) years or more will

receive an additional 3% increase on the base wage. Any Employee who has worked continuously for the

County for twenty-five (25) years or more will receive an additional 3% increase on the base wage. A total of

12% is possible under this program.


               Section 9. Notices. Notices required to be delivered to either party to this Agreement shall be,

unless otherwise stated herein, in writing and given by either personal delivery or by U.S. Mail to the other party.

Notice by personal delivery shail be effective on the date of delivery. Notice by U.S. Mail shail be effective on

the date the notice is postmarked, unless otherwise stated herein. Notices to the County shall be delivered to the
following address: Director of Human Resources, Coos County Courthouse, Coquille, Oregon 97423. Notices to

the Union shall be delivered to the Labor Representative at the provided address. “Personal delivery” includes

electronic mail (email) at the provided email address.


               Section 10. Training. The County agrees to provide appropriate training to employees on all

equipment at no cost to the employee and during working hours whenever practicable.


               Section 11: Side Agreements


               The Parties hereby agree that all existing side agreements, memoranda of understanding, letters

of agreement or other agreements between the parties that modify subjects of bargaining and/or the CBA (by

whatever name known) are recognized and enforceable as part of the CBA, specifically (but not limited to) the

“call-out procedure” side agreement from June 2019.


               Section 12: Reasonable Cause Drug Testing


               The 2021 Employee Handbook Policy 8.0 regarding Use of Drugs, Alcohol & Tobacco Products

is recognized except that the second paragraph under Reasonable Cause Testing on Page 48 is modified with

regard to employees covered by this CBA, as follows:


               Any accident or incident involving physical injury to any person or property damage may be

considered as constituting reasonable suspicion for testing for drugs and alcohol where human factors contribute

to the incident and a question of sobriety exists. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, any accident or incident

covered by the County’s D.O.T. Alcohol/Drug Testing Program policy, which was adopted in compliance with

the regulations set forth in the Department of Transportation rules at 49 CFR 383, 653, and 654, shall be

governed by that policy.


                Section 13: Social Media
       The 2021 Employee Handbook Policy 9.3 regarding Social Media is recognized except that the final

       paragraph on Page 56 is modified, with regard to employees covered by this CBA, as follows:


               Nothing in this policy prohibits the County from requiring an employee to produce content from

his/her social media or internet account in connection with a County-sponsored investigation into potential

misconduct, unlawful or unethical behavior, or policy or rule violations, when there is a reasonable link

between the employee’s suspected online or social media activity and the County’s legitimate business interests,

and when reasonable cause exists to believe that the employee’s internet or social media activity constitutes, or

provides evidence of, potential misconduct, unlawful or unethical behavior, or policy or rule violations. Such

information will only be used for employment purposes unless required to be released to other parties by a valid

court order or as otherwise required by law.




### ARTICLE 19 - TERMINATION AND CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS

               Unless otherwise agreed, the effective date of this Agreement shail be July 1,2024. This

Agreement will remain in effect through June 30,2027.


               On or before April 1, 2027at the written request of either of the parties, the County and the

Union shall meet to renew or renegotiate this Agreement.    The Union may select up to three (3) Employees to

serve as Union representatives during negotiations. Negotiations shall be conducted at time mutually convenient

to both parties. When negotiations are conducted during working hours, Employee representatives shall receive

their normal wages.


               During the period of negotiations over any proposed changes, this Agreement shall remain in full

force and effect.
By: Ltichiael
        ENRMann TCT
                223                           By Aitige
Michael Mann -Teamster Local #223      Date   Chair - Rod Taylor               Date


By:      d
         eee                                  By dob=   sweet a
Austin DePaolo~ Teamsters Local #223   Date   Commissioner - John Sweet        Date
 Secretary/Treasurer
                                              By   :              0
                                              Commissioner Robert “Bob” Main   Date




   Teamsters 223 Roads CBA 2024-2027
   Page 39 of 40
                                              223 Road Teamster Local
                                                Fiscal Year 2024-2025
                                                      July 1, 2024 (4+9%)


 Pay                                          Stepi                Step 2             Step 3             Step 4            Step 5            Step 6
Grade
 801      Maintenance Worker | (No CDL}   $           20.501   $       21,12    | $       21.75 | $          22.40}    $       23.08|    $       23.77


 802      Maintenance Worker 1I           $           21.79)   $       22.43      $       23.12 | $          23.80]    $       24.52|    $       25.26


 804      Maintenance Worker IV           $           24.771   $       25.52      $       26.28 | $          27.061    $       27.88]    $       28.72


 805      Maintenance Worker V            $           25.87|   $       26,64      $       27,44|$            28.26]    $       29.11]    $       29.99


 806    =| Maintenance Worker Vi          $           28.49}   $       29.34    | $       30.23 | $          31.14]    $       32.07]    $       33.04


 807      Fleet Service |                 $           23.08)   $       23.77      $       24.48     1$       25.221    $       25.991}   $       26.75


 808      Fleet Service It                $           24.36,   $        25.09     $        25.83 | $          26.62!   $       27.42)    $       28.25


 809      Fleet Service Hl                $           25.29}   $       26.05      $       26.83 | $          27.64)    $       28.47)    $       29.32


 810      Fleet Service IV                $           25.97;   $        26.74     $        27.54/13           28.38]   $       29.22|    $       30.09


 811      Fleet Service V                 $           28.49)   $       29.34    | $       30.23     |$       31.13)    $       32.07!    $       33.02
