                          Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between
                                        Deschutes County and
     American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Local 3997 (AFSCME)
               Regarding Behavioral Health Service Area Position Incentives
                                 Original Effective Date: September 9, 2022
                                 Amended June 1, 2023 and June 27, 2025

                                    Document #DC-2022-744 I 2025-709

This Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") is entered into by and between Deschutes County (the
"County") and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Local 3997
("AFSCME") . The County and AFSCME are parties to the Agreement Between Deschutes County and
the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Local 3997 (Agreement). The
purpose of this MOU is for Deschutes County and AFSCME to come to an agreement providing the
County discretion to immediately implement incentive programs addressing challenging recruitment and
retention issues that often require employees to possess specific skills and certifications to hold
behavioral health positions. The Certified Alcohol Drug Counselor (CADC) incentives and agreements
covered in this MOU apply exclusively to all Deschutes County behavioral health service area programs
which provide behavioral health and/or substance use disorder services at multiple Deschutes County
locations .

The behavioral health program is experiencing recruitment and retention challenges for CADCs caused
by the current labor market, the nature of the work , and the cost of becoming a CADC. In addition, there
has been a significant increase in the need for behavioral health interventions for individuals
experiencing substance use and mental health disorders, as evidenced by a 22% overall increase in
overdose deaths statewide and increasing rates of homelessness. The County would like to offer the
incentive program detailed below to new and current employees to stabilize and increase the number of
qualified staff to support important services to the community and improve retention of qualified staff.

The parties agree as follows:

    1. The County, in its sole discretion , shall select behavioral health program positions eligible to
       receive-incentive compensation subject to availability of funds and pilot methods to increase the
       number of qualified staff in hard-to-fill positions. The County may expand or contract
       compensation or other incentives as allowed under Federal, State , County laws and/or policies .
       Nothing in this MOU shall preclude the County from making changes to the incentive programs
       detailed below, including discontinuing the programs for any reason . However, the County shall
       honor any previously agreed to individual employee incentive compensation agreements to the
       extent the employee fulfills their required reciprocal obligations.

    2. Pursuant to this MOU , the County may implement the following incentive program:
a. Certified Alcohol and Drug Counselor <CADC} Program Certification Incentive-
   Temporary Program:
         I. The County, at its sole discretion , may offer an incentive that encourages staff
            to pursue and use CADC Certification . The incentive program will ipclude :


                1.   Stipend Pay for CAPC Certification
                         a.   Employees who have or obtain CADC Certification and who
                              provide services under their CADC Certification will receive
                              stipend pay as follows:
                                    i. $300 per month in additional pay for a CADC I
                                   ii. $350 per month in additional pay for a CADC II or Ill
                                  iii. $400 per month in additional pay for a CADC II or Ill that
                                       is providing CADC clinical supervision to staff

                2.   Reimbursement ofTuitjon and Expenses Toward CADC Certification
                         a.   Reimbursement for tuition and other CADC expenses deemed
                              eligible by the County for any newly recruited or existing
                              qualified behavioral health Peer Support Specialists, Behavioral
                              Health Specialist I, Behavioral Health Specialist II , Behavioral
                              Health Specialist II , UC, or other appropriate positions as
                              determined by the County assigned to Behavioral Health
                              programs. On-call employees are not eligible for the stipend
                              unless approved by the Behavioral Health Director.


                         b.   Reimbursement for eligible tuition and other expenses is
                              contingent upon available funds, will be based on program
                              service needs and management discretion, will cover certificate
                              and registration costs, and some or all tuition costs, subject to
                              availability of funds and needs of the department.

                         c.   Tuition reimbursement will generally be issued upon
                              satisfactory completion of approved coursework unless
                              otherwise agreed to by management. Satisfactory completion
                              means a C or higher in all letter-graded classes and Pass in any
                              Pass/Fail class.

                        d.    Employees are not eligible for tuition reimbursement during their
                              probationary period, as defined in Article 5 of the AFSCME
                              Contract.
                                                 I

                        e.    Employees at step 2 (written reprimand) or higher of progressive
                              discipline as defined by Article 6 of the AFSCME contract will be
                              inelig ible for tuition reimbursement benefits as described in this
                              MOU until the County deems the employee to have effectively
                              brought their performance to an acceptable level.

         II. This is an incentive program and the parties agree that this incentive program
             does not create past practice.


                                                                                                    2
3. This MOU supersedes the parties prior Memorandum of Understanding, identified as Deschutes
   County Document #DC-2021-897a, which governed CADC incentives for employees within
   behavioral health service area programs that provide behavioral health and/or substance use
   disorder services. Upon execution of this MOU by the parties , County Document #DC-2021-897a
   shall become null and void, and shall no longer be effective or enforceable.

4 . Should any provision or provisions of this MOU be construed by a court of competent
    jurisdiction to be void , invalid or unenforceable , such construction shall affect only the provision
    or provisions so construed, and shall not affect, impair or invalidate any of the other provisions
    of this MOU which shall remain in full force and effect.

5.   The provisions of this MOU are contractual and are not mere recitals. All terms, provisions and
     conditions of the MOU shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and to their
     respective heirs, executors , administrators, agents , representatives , successors and assigns.

6. This MOU shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of
   Oregon .

7. This MOU may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which together shall be
   deemed an original , but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. In
   the event that any signature is delivered by facsimile transmission or by email delivery of a 'pdf
   format data file or a similar format , such signature shall create a valid and binding obligation of
   the party executing (or on whose behalf such signature is executed) with the same force and
   effect as if such facsimile or 'pdf' signature page is original thereof.

8. Any dispute concerning the terms and conditions of this MOU brought by the County or AFSCME
   on behalf of its represented employees will be resolved under the terms of Article 7 - Grievance
   Procedure of the Agreement.

9. Except and unless specifically modified by this MOU , all terms and conditions of the
   Agreement shall remain in effect. To the extent any of the terms of this MOU conflict with
   those in the Agreement, the term and conditions of this MOU shall prevail for so long as it is
   in effect.

10. The parties acknowledge that they have had the opportunity to consult with their own legal
    counsel before signing and that they have either consulted with their own legal counsel
    regarding the terms and consequences of this MOU or have voluntarily elected not to consult
    with an attorney before signing.




                                                                                                             3
       BY SIGNING BELOW EACH OF THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY HAVE READ THIS FOUR-PAGE
       MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING , THEY UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO ITS TERMS AND THE
       CONSEQUENCES THEREOF , AND THAT THEY HAVE SIGNED IT KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY .



Agreed to this   j     day of +         · 2025.




N
Ml,f!f~
for Deschutes County                              for Oregon AFSCME Local 3997


                                                  6.30.25
Date                                              Date




                                                                                             4
