REVIEWED

  LEGAL-OUNSEL



                            Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between
                                        Deschutes County and
             Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association Dispatcher/Call taker Position Incentives

    This Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) is entered into by and between the Deschutes County 9-
    1-1 Service District (“DC911”) and the Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association (“Association”). DC911
    and the Association are parties to the Collective Bargaining Agreement between DC911 and Deschutes
    County 9-1-1 Employees Association: July 1, 2020 —June 30, 2022 ("CBA”).

    DC911 is currently experiencing recruitment difficulties caused by the ongoing COVID 19 pandemic,
    current conditions in the labor market, the intensity of the work, and the difficulty of attracting qualified
    employees interested in supporting a 24/7 emergency dispatch and call center. 0C911 would like to
    offer a recruitment incentive program as detailed below to offer to new employees to stabilize staffing
    on the 9-1-1 operations floor.

    The purpose of this MOU is for DC911 and the Association to come to an agreement to provide DC911
    with the ability to immediately implement an incentive program addressing the challenging recruitment
    issues currently impacting DC911 in recruiting new staff to provide services on the 9-1-1 operations
    floor, which include answering 9-1-1 and non-emergency calls, and dispatching police, fire, and medical
    services to the citizens of Deschutes County.

    In furtherance of the parties’ desire to improve recruitment for positions on the 9-1-1 operations floor,
    the parties hereby agree as follows:

        1.   DC911, in its sole discretion, shall select positions eligible to receive incentive compensation and
             pilot methods to address recruitment issues. DC911 may expand or contract compensation or
             other incentives as allowed under federal and state law, County ordinances and/or policies, or
             common law. Nothing in this MOU shall preclude DC911 from making changes to the incentive
             program detailed herein, including discontinuing the program for any reason. However, 0C911
             shall honor any previously executed individual employee incentive compensation agreements to
             the extent employees fulfill the required reciprocal obligations provided in such agreements.

        2.   The Association acknowledges that under ORS 243.672(1)(e) the parties are obligated to bargain
             in good faith prior to altering the status quo of any mandatory subject of bargaining that is not
             included the CBA. The Association hereby acknowledges as satisfied any right under federal,
             state, or common law to bargain any aspect of the incentive programs detailed in this MOU,
             including the implementation, modification, or discontinuation of those programs.

        3.   Pursuant to this MOU, DC911 may, in its discretion, implement the following incentive program:

                 a.   9-1-1 Call taker and Dispatcher Recruitment Bonus — Temporary Program:
                           i. DC911, at its sole discretion, may offer a signing bonus to any newly recruited




                                                                                                 DC - 2022-569
qualified 9-1-1 Call Taker, Public Safety Dispatcher | and Il, or other difficult-to-
fill positions, as determined by DC911, which are assigned to the 9-1-1
operations floor. This is a one-time incentive program and the parties agree it
does not create a binding or enforceable precedent or past practice.

An employee's acceptance of any signing bonus shall be voluntary and shall
require a minimum two-year (24 month) commitment to be memorialized by a
written agreement obligating the employee to work directly for or in support of
the 9-1-1 operations floor. Bonus pay will occur as follows:
    1. 25% of the eligible bonus will be paid as part of the employee’s first
         paycheck after beginning employment with DC911, and 75% of the
         eligible bonus will be paid as part of the employee’s fourth paycheck
         after beginning employment with the District, unless payment of the
         remaining 75% of the eligible bonus is required sooner in order to
         comply with Oregon law;
    2.   The total bonus shall not exceed $5000 without prior DC911 approval;
    3.   All bonus payments must be paid in full by January 2, 2024, or later if
         changes to applicable statues allow.
    4.   Bonus payments received pursuant to this incentive program are one-
         time only, to be received only upon hiring of qualified new employees
         into the 9-1-1 Call taker or Public Safety Dispatcher | or I! classifications.

Employees that voluntarily resign, voluntarily transfer to a non-9-1-1 operations
floor based position, or are at step 2 or higher of progressive discipline as
defined by Article 28 of the CBA prior to fulfilling the two-year (24 month)
commitment described herein automatically forfeit any remaining future
prorated bonus pay or other incentive pay for the months any of these
conditions are met.

The required written agreement noted in paragraph ii above shall be signed by
the employee and, at a minimum, include provisions requiring the following:
    1.   The employee shall remain in a position assigned to the 9-1-1
         operations floor for a minimum of two years (24 months), which may
         include employees who are promoted to a 9-1-1 supervisor position
         within this timeframe.
    2.   Inthe event the full two-year (24 month) time commitment is not met,
         employees shall be obligated to reimburse to DC911 the prorated,
         unearned portion of the bonus paid to them.
    3.   If an employee is required to reimburse any portion of the bonus to
         DC911, DC911 may, without further notice or authorization from the
         employee, deduct from the employee’s next three (including final)
         paychecks any amounts due for reimbursement of the bonus to the full
         extent permitted by applicable law. If the employee’s employment with
         DC911 ends for any reason before full reimbursement of all amounts
         due, the employee shall be required to reimburse all remaining
         amounts due within ninety (90) days of their last day of employment
         with DC911. The written agreement with the employee shall advise the
         employee of the deductions to be authorized by his or her signature and
                                  voluntary agreement.

    4.   Should any provision or provisions of this MOU be construed by a court of competent
         jurisdiction to be void, invalid or unenforceable, such construction shail affect only the provision
         of provisions so construed, and shall not affect, impair or invalidate any of the other provisions
         of this MOU which shall remain in full force and effect.

    5.   The provisions of this MOU are contractual and are not mere recitals. All terms, provisions and
         conditions of the MOU shail be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and to their
         respective heirs, executors, administrators, agents, representatives, successors and assigns.

    6.   This MOU shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of
         Oregon.

    7.   This MOU may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which together shall be
                                                                                                         In
         deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
         the event that any signature is delivered by facsimile transmission or by email delivery of a ".pdf'
         format data file or a similar format, such signature shall create a valid and binding obligation of
         the party executing (or on whose behalf such signature is executed) with the same force and
         effect as if such facsimile or ".pdf” signature page is original thereof.

    8.   Any dispute concerning the terms and conditions of this MOU brought by DC911 or The
         Association on behalf of its represented employees will be resolved under the terms of Article
         28 (Grievance Procedure) of the CBA.

    9.   Except and unless specifically modified by this MOU, all terms and conditions of the CBA shall
                                                                                                      the
         remain in effect. To the extent any of the terms of this MOU conflict with those in the CBA,
         term and conditions of this MOU shall prevail for so long as it is in effect.

    10. The parties acknowledge that they have had the opportunity to consult with their own legal
        counsel before signing and that they have either consulted with their own legal counsel
         regarding the terms and consequences of this MOU or have voluntarily elected not to consult
         with an attorney before signing.

BY SIGNING BELOW EACH OF THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY HAVE READ THIS THREE-PAGE
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING, THEY UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO ITS TERMS AND THE
CONSEQUENCES THEREOF, AND THAT THEY HAVE SIGNED IT KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY.

Agreedtoonthis       | 1    day of June, 2022.

Signatures:


                                                                                     6-I71-2-2~>
                                                                              Date



                                                                                       ee
                             s County 9-1-1 Service District



Afi |
    it
Krista Mugaveyo, Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association                        Date
                   -                            2         Pp a

                           Se            eee     es           ee               ee

                                        '
                                      Se                                       ee
  ee                        ee             ee             et
  ey         ee        ee ee                                                             es
           SS). Sees 8 = 2                                                               .*.
           ets   bee       See                  Ge       ee           eee                     7               7
                                                                                              =       7

       fot         bts.     ==                                                                                    -
      ee              ee ee
   SSS                           A.                                                    Its:
  ee   ee                        ws” =e                                   =>            =;  "
      Be= =                                ee        =                =) Ie =             psa
                       =         =        =o                               rmifen
                                                                               fa
             ee            se                                                                 —                   -


      _ a    BS    Be
  -          ne
              7 ss a= =                                                            5              -                   :
                                                                                                                          -
       -          oe
                 =                        =                   i                :              -
                                     7                    =       8
                                                                               -                                              i
                                       -
                       -             oe                  a
                       Be
                                                                                          -
                                                                      -                                   -

                                                                                              -
                 oS
i ee                   ee             ee
                                       et                                               —
