       LEGAL cou_r~s~l




                                  Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between
                                                 Deschutes County and
           American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Local 3997 (AFSCME)
            Regarding Registration, Certification and Licensure reimbursement as it relates to
                                                private gain


                                                Document #DC- 2024-334


This Memorandum of Understanding ("MOU") is entered into by and between Deschutes County (the "County")
and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Local 3997 ("AFSCME"). The County
and AFSCME are parties to the Agreement Between Deschutes County and the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees Local 3997 (Agreement). The purpose of this MOU is for the County and
AFSCME to come to an agreement providing the County the discretion to immediately implement a two-year
pilot project that will allow Licensed Clinicians that work for Behavioral Health , whose license was paid for by
the County, to use it for private gain and not require reimbursement to the County.

The County's current practice allows for payment of the professional registration , certification or licensure of all
full-time professional staff required to maintain their registration , certification or licensure as a condition of
employment and as required by state law. This includes but is not limited to: Public Health Nurses,
Environmental Health Specialists, Property Appraisers , Registered Health Information Technicians, Mental
Health Clinicians, Build ing Inspectors, and Notaries Public. Currently, when an employee utilizes any of these
for private gain and/or any non-county services they shall reimburse the county the full amount expended on
their behalf.

In order to recruit and retain quality staff, the County will conduct a two-year pilot to allow Behavioral Health
Clinicians to use their license, registration or certification for private gain without a requirement to reimburse the
County subject to individual approval by the Department. Health Services has a Conflict of Interest Disclosure that is
required to be completed and approved prior to any outside employment to ensure there are no conflicts of interests
as it relates to their work at the county and their outside employment.

           1. The County, in its sole discretion , may modify or discontinue the procedures as described in this
              MOU , provided that 14 days prior notice of such changes is provided to Behavioral Health staff.
              The County agrees that if a modification to or discontinuance of the procedures described in in
              this MOU , in whole or in part, are proposed and the effect of such changes will substantially
              impact a mandatory subject of bargaining under Oregon law, upon receipt of written demand to
              bargain from AFSCME the parties will engage in bargaining regarding such changes utilizing the
              mid-term bargaining process as provided in ORS 243.698, except that such bargaining shall be
              completed within 30 days of receipt of the written demand to bargain by the County.



           2. Should any provision or provisions of this MOU be construed by a court of competent
               jurisdiction to be void , invalid or unenforceable, such construction shall affect only the provision

                                                                                           Document #DC-2024-334



                                                                                                  - ·   -
               of provisions so construed , and shall not affect, impair, or invalidate any of the other provisions
               of this MOU which shall remain in full force and effect.

         3. The provisions of this MOU are contractual and are not mere recitals . All terms, provisions and
            conditions of the MOU shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and to their
            respective heirs, executors, administrators, agents , representatives, successors, andassigns.

          4.   This MOU shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of
               Oregon .

          5.   This MOU may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which together shall be
               deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. In
               the event that any signature is delivered by facsimile transmission or by email delivery of a 'pdf
               format data file or a similar format, such signature shall create a valid and binding obligation of
               the party executing (or on whose behalf such signature is executed) with the same force and
               effect as if such facsimile or 'pdf' signature page is original thereof.

          6.   Any dispute concerning the terms and conditions of this MOU brought by the County or AFSCME
               on behalf of its represented employees will be resolved under the terms of Article 7- Grievance
               Procedure of the Agreement.

          7.   Except and unless specifically modified by this MOU , all terms and conditions of the
               Agreement shall remain in effect. To the extent any of the terms of this MOU conflict with
               those in the Agreement, the term and conditions of this MOU shall prevail for so long as
               it is in effect.


         8. The parties acknowledge that they have had the opportunity to consult with their own
            legal counsel before signing and that they have either consulted with their own legal
            counsel regarding the terms and consequences of this MOU or have voluntarily elected
            not to consult with an attorney before signing .

     BY SIGNING BELOW EACH OFTHEPARTIESACKNOVVLEDGE THAT THEY HAVE READ THIS TVl,0-PAGE
     MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING, THEY UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO ITS TERMS AND
     THE CONSEQUENCES THEREOF, ANDTHATTHEYHAVESIGNED IT KNOWINGLY AND
     VOLUNTARILY.


     Agreed to on this    2,q +h          day ot. JllVl lAtL~ l       Z.,QZ-S°

Signatures:



                                                                     I/ ?fi/2#
                                                                   Datd  I




                                                                                         Document #DC-2024-334
Document #DC-2024-334
