 Memorandum of Understanding Between Deschutes County and The American Federation
            of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Local 3997
      AGREEMENT REGARDING DESCHUTES COUNTY CRISIS PROGRAM EMPLOYEES
                        Original Effective: December 1, 2021
                        Amended June 27, 2025

                       Document #DC-2021 -898 / 2025-710

This Scheduling and Employment Agreement (Agreement) is hereby entered into by and
   between Deschutes County (County) and AFSCME Council 75 (Union) on behalf of
   AFSCME Local 3997 and the full-time employees of the Crisis Program to define the
   terms and conditions of employment for and establish the schedules of Crisis Program
   employees. The Crisis Program is comprised of both on site services at the stabilization
   center and responds to community-based calls for service. This Agreement can be
   reviewed at any time by request of either the County or Crisis Program employees. The
   County and Crisis Program employees will schedule the first meeting within 30 days from
   the date of the request.


                                           Recitals
WHEREAS, the Deschutes County Health Services Department (OCHS) and Crisis Program
   employees are mutually interested in establishing an employment relationship in the Crisis
   Program to define the terms and conditions of employment for and establish the
   schedules of these employees.
WHEREAS, OCHS, AFSCME, Local 3997 (AFSCME), and Crisis Program employees recognize
   and agree that due to the unique nature of the Crisis Program and the work performed by
   Crisis Program employees , the terms and conditions of employment agreed to herein shall
   apply solely to Crisis Program employees.
WHEREAS, the Crisis Program is a division of OCHS tasked generally with providing face to
  face and telephonic crisis support for individuals experiencing a mental health crisis ;
WHEREAS, the Crisis Program includes two divisions performing interrelated functions,
   including the Community Crisis Response Team ("CCRT") and Deschutes County
   Stabilization Center ("DCSC") ;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants set forth herein ,
  the County, AFSCME, and the Crisis Program employees each agree as follows:


                                      AGREEMENT
The changes outlined in this Agreement will become effective on the first day of the month
   immediately following the agreement being signed . Until then , the existing Crisis
   Program Scheduling and Employment Agreement will remain in full force and effect.



                                                                                                1
A. Overview of Position and Schedule:

The purpose of the Crisis Stabilization Center is to provide the community with (24) twenty-four
hour crisis coverage as an effective alternative to the emergency department and criminal
justice system. The Crisis Program provides excellent community service by sustaining a healthy
and knowledgeable workforce.


   1. Minimum staffing ind icates the number of people who will remain in the building
      throughout the entire shift. Each shift will consist of a minimum of three employees
      (including contractors). Staffing is at the discretion of the supervisors and program
      manager based on operational needs and may be adjusted as needed . The safety
      committee which is comprised of staff and leadership will be utilized to review this
      policy moving forward.


   2. An employee working on-site at the Stabilization Center will be assigned a regularly
      scheduled shift, either Day , Swing , or Night. Employees will be paid a shift differential
      when the majority of hours worked during a regularly scheduled shift occur in either
      the Swing or Night shifts. "Majority of hours" means a number of whole hours greater
      than one-half (including meal breaks) , e.g. , 5 hours of an 8 hour shift:


                                  Hours                 Shift Differential
                        Swing Shift                7 ½ percent differential
                        Night Shift                10 percent differential


       The table above does not define the hours of the assigned shifts, hours worked will be
       the department's discretion.


   3. Staff are able to trade shifts with prior supervisor approval. In determining the approval
      the supervisor will consider implications of overtime, flexing hours , using TML, minimum
      staffing, and any other factors . If exempt staff swap a day shift for a swing or night shift,
      the person working the swing or night shift will be provided a stipend of $185 for a swing
      shift, or $250 for a 12-hour night shift.


   4. Holidays:
           a. Employees will accrue eight (8) hours per month for personal time off in lieu of
               holidays. All part-time employees (half time or more) shall accrue on a prorated
               basis.
                  i.     No payment in lieu of holiday time off shall be made in the event an
                         employee passes away , resigns , or is discharged from employment within
                        the initial six months of employment. After the first six months of
                         employment, employees are entitled to payment of accrued personal
                                                                                                       2
                      time off in lieu of holidays , prorated through any portion of the last pay
                      period .
        b.   Upon application , which can be made no more than tw ice per fiscal year, a
             Deschutes County Crisis Program employee may be paid for up to 48 hours per
             fiscal year for personal time accrued under Section A. Up to 96 hours of
             personal time may be carried from fiscal year to fiscal year. Employees who have
             accrued more than 96 hours of personal (holiday) time as of July 1 of each fiscal
             year will forfeit any time above that 96-hour limit.
        c. In the event a non-exempt employee is required to work on one of the holidays
             identified below , which shall mean having to work between 12:00 :00 a.m. and
             11 :59:59 p.m. on the date of the holiday , the emp loyee shall be granted time off
             or receive compensation in the amount equal to the employee's regular straight
             time rate plus an additional amount equal to one and one-half (1 1/2) times the
             regular straight time rate for the hours worked on that holiday .
        d. In the event an exempt employee is required to work on one of the holidays
             identified below, which shall mean having to work between 12:00:00 a.m. and
             11 :59:59 p.m. on the date of the hol iday , the emp loyee shall receive their salary
             plus be granted time off or receive compensation in the amount equal to one ( 1)
             times the regular straight time rate for the hours worked on that holiday .
                i.    Thanksgiving Day
               ii .   Christmas Day
              iii.    New Year's Day
              iv.     Independence Day
              V.      Memorial Day


5. Holiday Schedule: Time off on common ly requested dates for the year will be submitted
   by email on pre-determined bidding date(s) , and will be granted based on seniority and
    holiday leave granted in the previous year. Procedures for requesting holidays off are
   found in the operating policy . The Betterment Committee which is comprised of staff and
    leadership will be utilized to review this policy moving forward. This process will go into
   effect on January 2, 2022.


6. If a supervisor determines extra staffing coverage is needed , exempt employees will be
   provided a stipend for picking up extra work hours in addition to their normal schedule.
   QMHP employees will be compensated $350 to cover an 8-hour stabilization center shift.
   A prorated amount will be provided if they work less than 8 hours. Non-exempt
   employees may also be asked to provide staffing coverage in which case they would
   receive compensation in the amount equal to one-half (1 1/2) times the regular straight
   time rate for the hours worked on that shift. If the shift cannot be filled internal ly, the
   Internal On-call Crisis Response Pool Agreement will be utilized .

                                                                                                     3
   Employees who are utilized for a portion of a shift will be paid a pro-rated portion of the
   stipend based on the number of hours worked with in the shift divided by the total hours
   in the sh ift. No add itional TML will accrue when employees work these shifts .


   Upon execution of th is MOU , Section 3.b.ii.2-4 of the MOU Regarding Health Services
   Crisis Program Position Incentives, Document #DC-2021 -711 , and the entire MOU
   Regarding Extra Staffing Coverage at the Crisis Stabilization Center, Document #DC-2021-
   733 , shall become null and void .


7. In the event of an internal transfer, transfer timelines will be determined by the
   Supervisors of the affected teams . If an agreement between the supervisors is not
   reached , they will en list assistance of the program manager and director to come to a
   final decision . Employees who are separating from the county will give a minimum of 30
   days' notice of their departu re. Employees will be deemed to have left County
   employment not in good stand ing , for a period of five (5) years from the date of leaving
   Cou nty employment, if they fail to provide the minimum 30 days ' notice.


B. General Provisions


 1. Crisis Stabilization Center employees are represented by AFSCME. Except for the terms
    and conditions of employment unique to Crisis Program employees that are agreed to
    herein, all terms and conditions of employment for Crisis Program employees shall
    otherwise be governed by the CBA, Deschutes County personnel rules , and/or other
    applicable Deschutes County policies. No aspects of this Agreement will be applicable
    to other OCHS personnel and/or other AF SC ME-represented employees.

 2. Th is Agreement constitutes the only exception to the Deschutes County HR-Personnel
    Rules, applicable Deschutes County policies and practices, and the provisions of the
    CBA agreed to by Crisis Stabilization Center employees , AFSCME, and OCHS . Crisis
    Stabilization Center employees, AFSCME and the County agree that the arrangement
    reflected in and governed by this Agreement is unique to Crisis Program does not
    create a precedent or an enforceable practice or policy for the County or its
    employees, or otherwise affected or impact in any way other County employees
    covered by the C BA.

 3. Should any provision or provisions of this Agreement be construed by a court of
     competent jurisdiction to be void, invalid or unenforceable, such construction shall
     affect only the provision or provisions so construed , and shall not affect, impair or
     invalidate any of the other provisions of this Agreement wh ich shall remain in full force
     and effect.


                                                                                                  4
       4. Provisions of this Agreement are contractual and are not mere recitals . All terms,
          provisions and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the
          benefit of the parties and to their respective heirs, executors, administrators, agents,
          representatives , successors and assigns.

       5. Th is Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the
          State of Oregon .

       6. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which together
          shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same
          instrument. In the event that any signature is delivered by facsimile transmission or by
          e-mail deliver of a ".pdf' format data file or a similar format, such signature shall create
          a val id and binding obligation of the party executing (or on whose behalf such signature
           is executed) with the same force and effect as if such facsimile or ".pdf' signature page
           is an original thereof.




A
Az~:a,_J_v_4__
            r ,                                   2025.


                          ~
                                                                                ~
Nick Lelack                                                Brenda Johnson
for Deschutes County                                       for Oregon AFSCM


                                                            6.30.25
Date                                                        Date




                                                                                                         5
