  REVIEWED
                           AGREEMENT
L.E~     SEL
                            BETWEEN

             DESCHUTES COUNTY 9-1-1 SERVICE DISTRICT

                              AND

                         DESCHUTES 9-1-1

                     EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION

                       (9-1-1 SUPERVISORS)




               July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2026

                                                       DC 2025-065
SECTION              TITLE

 1.           Prea1n b1e and Scope .......................................................................... 3
2.            Recognition ....................................................................................... 3
3.           Check Off and Service Fees ............................................................ 3
4.            Management Rights .......................................................................... 5
5.           No Strikes and No Lockouts ............................................................ 6
6.           Association Business and Agreement Renewal.. ............................. 6
7.           Bulletin Board ................................................................................... 7
8.           Outside Employment ....................................................................... 7
9.            Seniority and Layo ff ........................................................................ 8
 10.         Hours of Work ................................................................................. 9
 11 .        Con1pensation ................................................................................ 10
 12.         Travel & Training Time ................................................................. 12
13.          Working Out of Classification ....................................................... 12
14.           Mileage and Expenses ................................................................... 12
15.          Pay Steps ........................................................................................ 13
 16.         Flex Time ...................................................................................... 13
17.          Court Time ..................................................................................... 13
18.          Holidays ......................................................................................... 14
19.          Time Management ......................................................................... 14
20.          Worker's Compensation ................................................................. 16
2 1.         Leave of Absence With Pay ........................................................... 16
22.          Leave of Absence Without Pay ...................................................... 17
23.          Other Leaves .................................................................................. 18
24.          Retirement ...................................................................................... 18
25.          Insurance ........................................................................................ 18
26.          Grievance Procedure ...................................................................... 20
27.          Discipline and Discharge ............................................................... 2 1
28.          Probationary Period ........................................................................ 22
29.          Personnel Fi le ................................................................................. 23
30.          Rules ............................................................................................... 23
3 1.         Labor/Management Committee ..................................................... 24
32.          Funding .......................................................................................... 24
33.          Savings Clause .............................................................................. 25
34.          Duration ...................................................................26
Appendix "A" Salary Schedule .............................................................................. 27
Appendix "B" Time Management .......................................................................... 28




Deschutes 9-1- 1 Employees Association (Supervisors)
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 2 of 4 1
             AGREEMENT BETWEEN DESCHUTES COUNTY 9-1-1 SERVICE DISTRICT

                                                   AND

                            DESCHUTES 9-1-1 EMPLOYEES ASSOCIATION

        That certain Agreement by and between Deschutes County 9-1- l Service District, a
        County Service District, and Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association.

### 1.     PREAMBLE AND SCOPE
        A.     This Agreement is entered into by and between the Deschutes County 9-1-1 Service
               District, a County Service District, ("District"), and the Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees
               Association, ("Association"). As used in this Agreement, the term "Director" shall
               at all times refer to the District's Director or the Director's designee.

        B.     This Agreement shall apply to all regular full-time Deschutes County 9-1-1 Service
               District supervisors

### 2.      RECOGNITION
        A.     The District recognizes the Association as the sole and exclusive representative with
               respect to wages, hours and specified conditions of employment, for all regular full-
               time employees included in the bargaining unit, as set out below.

                l.   Supervisor, 9-1-1

        B.     In the event the Director determines the need for a new classification, the
               Association will be notified, and thereafter, the Association shall have the right to
               negotiate with the Director regarding the salary range. Should the parties be unable
               to reach an agreement as to the appropriate salary for a new classification, the parties
               will utilize the statutory mid-contract bargaining process, which shall not last longer
               than 30 days.

### 3.     CHECK-OFF AND SERVICE FEES
        A.      Employees within the bargaining unit may at any time choose to become a member of
                the Association and sign and deliver to the District a written authorization allowing the
                deduction of the Association's monthly dues from the employee's pay. Employees
                within the bargaining unit may also, at any time, choose to pay a monthly service fee
                in lieu of dues, in an amount to be certified by the Association to the District, and
                deliver to the district a written authorization allowing the deduction of the monthly
                service fee in lieu of dues from the employee's pay. Employees within the bargaining
Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 3 of30
                 unit may also choose not to become a member of the Association or to pay a monthly
                 service fee in lieu of dues. Ifan employee chooses to become a member of the
                 Association or pay a monthly service fee in lieu of dues, any written authorization to
                 deduct pay delivered to the District pursuant to this paragraph must clearly
                 demonstrate the employee's affirmative consent to such a deduction.

           B.   The District agrees to deduct from the paycheck of each employee who is a member
                of the Association the regular initiation fee and regular monthly dues required o f
                members of the Association. The District also agrees to deduct from the paycheck of
                each employee who is not a member of the Association a monthly service fee upon
                receipt of written proof that the employee has clearly and affirmatively consented to
                the deduction. The District shall not make deductions from any bargaining unit
                member's wages for dues or service fees unless authorized in writing as provided in
                this Article. ln the event a bargaining unit member notifies the District that he or she
                no longer wishes to have dues or service fees deducted from their pay, the District
                shall cease deducting dues or service fees from their pay as soon as practicable and
                will notify the Association within five working days of receiving such notification
                from the bargaining unit member.

           C.   The amounts to be deducted as Association dues shall be certified to the District by
                the Treasurer of the Association, and the aggregate deductions of all employees
                shall be remitted to the Treasurer of the Association by the District by no later than
                the 5th day of the succeeding month after such deductions are made. The amount to
                be deducted by the District shall be determined by the Association who will so
                notify the District in writing.

           D.   The District w ill furnish to the Association each month the Association's monthly
                dues payment and a listing of all employees covered by this Agreement who are
                paying monthly Association dues or a service fee in lieu of dues as provided in this
                Article. Such listing shall contain the names of the employees, hire dates, and the
                job classification of each employee.

           E.   The Association agrees that it will indemnify, defend and hold the District harmless
                from all suits, actions, proceedings or claims against the Distr ict or persons acting
                on behalf of the District, whether for damages, compensation, reinstatement or any
                combination thereof, involving the application of this Section. In the event an
                arbitrator, a court or an administrative agency of competent jurisdiction decides that
                any part of this Section is invalid and/or that reimbursement of the monthly service
                fee to a non-Association employee must be made, the Association shall be solely
                responsible for such reimbursement.



Deschutes 9- 1- 1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 4 of 30
### 4.      MANAGEMENT RIGHTS
        A.      The rights of the Association and employees are limited to those specifi ed by the
                terms of this Agreement. The District retains all the customary, usual and exclusive
                rights, decision-making prerogatives, functions, and authority connected with, or in
                any way incident to its responsibility to manage the affairs of the District. The
                District shall have no obligation to bargain with the Association with respect to any
                such subjects or the exercise of its discretion and decision- making with regard
                thereto, any subjects covered by the tenns of this Agreement and closed to furth er
                bargaining for the term hereof, or any subject which was or might have been raised
                in the course of collective bargaining, except as provided in O.R.S. 243.698, with
                section (4) of the statute modified by changing the 90 day bargaining period to 30
                days.

         B.     Without limitation, but by way of illustration, the exclusive prerogatives, functions,
                and rights of the District shall include the following:

                 1.   To determine the service to be rendered to the citizens of the District
                      jurisdiction.

                2.    To direct and supervise all operations, functions and policies of the
                      Department in which the employees in the bargaining unit are employed, and
                      operations, functions and policies in the remainder of the District as they may
                      affect employees in the bargaining unit.

                3.    To close or liquidate an office, branch, operation or facility, or combination
                      of facilities, or to relocate, reorganize or combine the work of divisions,
                      branches, operations or facilities for budgetary or other reasons.

                4.    To determine the need for a reduction or an increase in the workforce and the
                      implementation of any decision with regard thereto.

                5.    To establish, revise and implement standards for hiring, classification,
                      promotion, quality of work safety, materials, equipment, uniforms,
                      appearance, methods, and procedures.

                6.    To implement new, and to revise or discard, wholly or in part, old methods,
                      pol icies, procedures, materials, equipment, fac ilities and standards.

                7.    To assign and distribute work.

                8.    To assign shifts, workdays, hours of work and work locations.

                9.    To designate and to assign all work duties.

Deschutes 9- 1-1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 5 of30
                10. To introduce new duties and to revise job classifications and duties within the
                    bargaining unit.

                11.   To determine the need for and the qualifications of new employees, transfers
                      and promotions.

                12.   To discipline, suspend, demote or discharge an employee so long as such action is with
                      just cause.

                13.   To determine the need for additional educational courses, training programs,
                      on-the-job training and cross-training, and to assign employees to such duties
                      for periods to be determined by the District.

### 5.      NO STRIKES AND NO LOCKOUTS
        A.      The Association and employees within the bargaining unit, as individuals or a group,
                will not initiate, cause, promote, permit, participate in or join in any strike, work
                stoppage, or slow-down, picketing or any other restrictions of work at any location.
                While acting in the course of their employment, employees shall not honor any
                picket line, except that such picket line may be honored if crossing the picket line
                would be unreasonably dangerous or hazardous to the employee. Disciplinary
                action, including discharge, may be taken by the District against any employee or
                employees engaged in a violation of this Section. Such disciplinary action shall be
                undertaken uniformly and shall not preclude or restrict recourse to any other
                remedies, including an action for damages, which, by reason of this Agreement,
                shall be available to the District.

        B.      The District agrees that there will be no lockouts during the term of this Agreement.

        C.      In the event of strike, work stoppage, slow-down, picketing, observance of a picket
                line, or otber restriction of work in any fo rm, either on the basis of individual choice
                or collective conduct of employees, the Association will immediately use every
                good fai th effort to ensure an orderly return to work. This obligation and the
                obligation set forth above shall not be affected or limited by the subject matter
                involved in the dispute giving rise to the stoppage, or by whether such subject matter
                is or is not subject to the provisions of this Agreement.

### 6.      ASSOCIATION BUSINESS AND AGREEMENT RENEWAL
        A.     Employees elected to serve as authorized representatives of the Association shall
               perform their duties as representatives of the Association on their own time, except
               as provided in subsection B of this Section.

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 6 of 30
        B.      The District shall allow up to the combined total of fifty (50) hours of on-duty time
                per year to the authorized representatives of both bargaining units of the Association
                for the purpose of conducting Association business upon prior approval of the
                Director. For employees in the Supervisor bargaining unit, no overtime, premium
                pay, or additional pay in any form shall be paid for Association business. Time spent
                meeting with the Director or the Director's designec at the Director's request, and
                time spent in the County's Employee Benefits Advisory Committee meetings shall
                not count towards the 50 hours.

        C.      The Association shall be eligible to use the District copier, fax and telephones. Any
                cost incurred by the District for said use shall be reimbursed to the District by the
                Association.

        D.      The District agrees that a designated Association Representative, upon reasonable
                and proper introduction, shall have reasonable access to the premises of the district
                at any time during worlcing hours for the purpose of assisting the administration of
                this Agreement.

### 7.     BULLETIN BOARD
                The District agrees to maintain a minimwn of four (4) square feet of bulletin board
                space in each separate division and/or building used by District personnel to be used
                by the Association.

### 8.     OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT
         A.     An employee who wishes to work for another employer shall request approval from
                the Director. Authorization for an employee to engage in outside employment shall
                be granted by the Director if the employment meets the following conditions:

                I.    The employment must not conflict with the employee's work for the District.

                2.    The employment must in no way be a discredit to the District.

                3.    The employment must in no way detract from the efficiency of the employee's
                      duties for the District.

                4.   In any situation where extra duty will be necessary in the employee's District
                     work, such extra duty w ill take precedence over the employee's outside
                     employment.

                5.   No employee shall perform any service or employment during District
                     working hours for which the employee receives additional outside
Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 7 of 30
                     compensation.

        B.      The Director may w ithdraw authorization for any outside employment if the
                employee or outside employment of the employee violates any o f the conditions set
                forth in Subsection A above.


### 9.     SENIORITY AND LAYOFF
         A.     Seniority, as used in this Agreement, is determined by the length of an employee's
                continuous full-time service with the District as a Supervisor, 9-1-1. Unless leave is
                protected leave under FMLA or OFLA, an employee will cease accruing seniority
                at the end of a pay period when the employee begins an approved leave of absence
                without pay of more than thirty-one (31) days; however, such employee shall not
                lose any seniority already accrued. An employee will resume accruing seniority
                again from the beginning of the pay period when the employee returns to work.
                Seniority shall be frozen should an employee accept promotion outside of the
                bargaining unit.

         B.     The District will provide the Association with a copy of the seniority list upon
                request from the Association, which will then be posted on the bulletin board.

         C.     An employee shall lose all seniority in the event of a voluntary resignation ,
                discharge for cause, is laid off and fails to respond to written notice as provided in
                Paragraph E below, is laid off work for a period of time greater than twenty-four
                (24) months, fails to report to work at the termination of an extended leave of
                absence, or while on a leave of absence accepts employment without permission, or
                is retired.

         D.     Layoff shall be in the inverse order of seniority w ithin classification, by District
                seniority, with the exception that a less senior employee with the special ski ll of
                being bilingual in Spanish as provided in Section 11 .F may be retained over a more
                senior employee or employees. If an employee is laid off, that employee may elect
                to displace an employee in a lower classification at a lesser pay range provided that
                the employee electing to displace another has greater District seniority and is
                qualified to perform the lower classification. An employee must notify the District
                of his/her decision to displace another employee within six (6) working days of
                receipt of the layoff notice. The employee displaced by this process must be the
                employee with the least District seniority in the lower classification. An employee
                subject to layoff displacement may, in turn, invoke this displacement process if such
                an opportunity exists.

        E.      Employees shall be recalled in the inverse order of layoff, that is, the laid off
                employee with the most seniority will be the first employee recalled. An employee's
                failure to respond to a recall notice as specified by Paragraph C above shall

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 8 of30
                constitute a waiver of the employee's recall rights.

        F.      In the case of a tie in seniority, the employee who was first promoted to supervisor
                shall prevail. If two or more employees were promoted to supervisor on the same
                date, the employee with the most overall time as an employee of the District shall
                prevail.

### 10.     HOURS OF WORK

        A.      The regular hours of work each day shall be consecutive and shall include a one-
                half ( l/2) hour paid lunch period.

        B.      Regular work schedules reflecting when employees are expected to be at their
                workstation or otherwise present at a District facility shall consist of the following:

                I.    Dispatch Supervisors: Twelve ( 12) hours per day during a four-da y-on, four-
                      day-off workweek; and

                2.    Training and Administrative Supervisors: Ten-and-a-half ( I 0.5) hours per day
                      during a four-day-on , three-day-off workweek.

        C.      For non-mandatory conferences or optional extended training opportunities of three
                or more days, including travel time, the District and affected employee(s) may
                mutually agree to alter an employee's regular work schedule, workweek, and/or
                workdays. Should the District and the employee(s) be unable to reach mutual
                agreement, the District may disallow the employee's paid participation in a non-
                mandatory conference or optional training opportunity.

         D.     An employee may substitute for another provided the covering employee receives no
                compensation for the substitution and the District will incur no additional costs,
                including but not limited to any form of premium pay, as a result of the substitution.

         E.     Written schedules showing when each employee is expected to be present at their
                workstation or otherwise present at a District facility shall be posted on the District's
                bulletin board. Except for special or emergency situations, and for the duration of
                the special or emergency situation, changes in regular work schedules shall be
                posted no later than seven (7) days prior to the effective date of the change.

         F.     Should the present plan for regular schedules, days or hours worked, or days off be
                changed by the District, the District agrees to negotiate the impact of such change
                as provided in the Oregon Public Employees Collective Bargaining Act.

         G.     Employees shall be allowed to leave the building during their lunch as long as
Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 9 of 30
                minimum staffing levels are maintained and user/public safety is not compromised.
                In addition, the District Director or designce, or the District Operations Manager
                may require that employees remain on premises during their lunch period if an
                emergency situation dictates the potential need for additional staffing.

          H.    Employees shall be given the opportunity to bid for regula r schedules and team
                schedules over which they w ill supervise for the following year based on seniority,
                provided that the Distric t may override the bid and reassign an employee if required
                by the District's reasonable operating needs. If the District reassigns an employee,
                the District w ill provide the employee with an explanation of the reasons for the
                reassignment. T his process shall start by September 15th and e nd no later than
                November 1st. This provis ion shall not be grievable beyond step three (3) of the
                grievance procedure.

          I.    The Director, their designee, or the Operations Manager may temporari ly adjust
                employees' schedules upon request by an employee or when the business or
                operational needs of the District require, provided that supervisory coverage is
                maintained for each shift affected. Employees may temporarily adjust their
                schedules when needed, provided that supervisory coverage is maintained for each
                shift affected by such change and the Operations Manager or their designee is
                notified of the change as soon as practicable. T he District may refuse or reverse an
                employee-initiated schedule change if the business or operational needs of the
                District require it.

### 11.    COMPENSATION
         A.     Wages for employees in the bargaining unit shall be in accordance w ith the sala ry
                schedule in the Appendixes which are attached hereto and by this reference
                incorporated herein.

         B.     Longevity Pay. Employees who have worked continuously for the District or its
                predecessor agencies shall receive an additional amount of pay per month for each
                five years of continuous full-time service worked.

                        $95.00                   FY 2024/25
                        $97.50                   FY 2025/26
                Longevity pay shall terminate in the event of the following:

                I.   Voluntary termination for greater than three (3) months except under special
                     circumstances to be determined by the Director.

                2.   Discharge for cause.


Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 10 of 30
                3.   A lay-off period for greater than eighteen ( 18) months. T ime off during
                     lay-off period shall not count toward longevity accrual.

                4.    Failure to report to work at the termination of an extended leave of absence.

                5.   Acceptance of employment without permission while on leave of absence.

                6.   Retirement.

        C.      Pay Periods. Employees shall be paid on a monthly basis and shall receive the
                check on the last working day of the month. In the event the regular pay day shall
                fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or a District recognized holiday, the last preceding
                regular workday shall be the regular pay day in lieu of the last day of the month.
                During this contract period, the District may change the pay cycle and paydays
                one time with sixty (60) days written notice to Association.

        D.      Cell Phones. The District shall provide a work cell phone to each employee.

         E.     Educational Expenses

                I.   The District will reimburse 50% of tuition for classes leading toward ANAS
                     or BA/BS degree in; a.) Criminal Justice, b.) Fire Science, c.) Business
                     Management, d.) Computer Science, e.) Communications, f.) Psychology, or
                     g.) Medical Fields such as nursing, EMT, etc. Such reimbursement would be
                     applied to any class needed to fulfill degree requirements, subject to approval.
                     Applicant must be a declared degree seeker, or the specific class(es) must be
                     directly job-related.
                2.   Applicant must be an employee of the District for at least two years prior to
                     the beginning of the requested class(es).

                3.   Applicant must receive a "C" grade or better.

                4.   Funds must be available. The District will provide a budget not to exceed
                     $8,000 every fiscal year for the education expenses of Association members
                     in both bargaining units of the Association. Unused budgeted funds that
                     remain at the end of a fiscal year will not be carried forward to subsequent
                     fiscal years.

                5.   Requests are subject to prior approval.

         F.     Certification Pay, Employees who are bilingual in Spanish at the intermediate level
                shall receive $150.00 per month.

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 11 of 30
         G.     On-Call Compensation. In recognition of the requirement that employees engage
                in on-call activities, employees shall be entitled to four (4) hours of base pay per
                month to be paid in the first pay period of each month.

### 12.    TRAVEL AND TRAINING TIME
        A.      Out-of-town travel is covered by two sets of rules, depending on whether the
                assignment is for one day or requires an overnight stay. If an employee is given a
                one-day assignment in another city that does not require an overnight stay, all the
                time spent traveling between cities is counted as hours worked. However, time spent
                traveling between the employee's home and the airport (during the employee's
                departure or return) is not considered to be work time because it is the equivalent
                of travel between work and home.

        B.      If the employee's out-of-town assignment requires an overnight stay, time spent
                traveling to and from the other city during nom1al work hours (including during a
                normally scheduled day off) w ill be compensated at the employee's base rate of pay.
                No overtime wi ll be paid for travel time when an overnight stay is involved, unless
                the total hours for the training and travel exceed what hours the employee's normal
                workweek would encompass. When travel time falls outside of an e mployee's
                nonnal work hours, the travel time shall be compensated if such travel time is by
                automobile (either as dr iver or as passenger) and not paid if such travel is via
                airplane. In situations such as these, the training shall be pre-planned, and the
                employee's schedule may be adjusted to minimize additional hours that will be
                worked in excess of their normally scheduled hours for the week. In cases where
                training exceeds the normally scheduled hours for the week, overtime will be paid.

### 13.     WORKING OUT OF CLASSIFICATION
                Any employee assigned to perform the functions of a higher classification for more
                than three continuous working shifts shall receive the pay for the higher
                classification or a I 0% pre mium of the employee's regular wage, whichever is
                greater.

### 14.    MILEAGE AND EXPENSES
                Reimbursement for travel and other incidental expenses will be made by the District
                as provided in the then-current Travel and/or Miscellaneous Expense policies of
                Deschutes County.




Deschutes 9- 1-1 Employees Association
July l, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 12 of 30
### 15.     PAY STEPS
       A.      An employee is eligible for a step increase on the first of the month following the
               employee's anniversary date in their current classification. An employee is eligible
               for step increases annually thereafter, until the employee reaches the top of the
               range in that classification.

       B.      Annual step increases shall be granted for employees who meet performance
               standards and have not reached the top step of their salary range.

       C.      Individual performance evaluations are not grievable. However, the denial of a step
               increase may be grieved by the Association.


### 16.    FLEX TIME

               If employees are required to attend mandatory supervisory staff meetings, pre-
               approved training, fulfill short-term, unforeseen staffing or operational needs, or
               fulfill priority administrative or training needs, they shall accrue an additional hour
               of flex time for each hour of work performed outside of their normally assigned
               schedule. Employees must first obtain approval from their manager or their
               designee in order to accrue flex time for any other work performed outside of their
               normally assigned work schedule. Flex time accrued under this paragraph shall
               have no cash value and shall not be paid out as a cash benefit under any
               circumstances, including upon separation of the employee from employment. Flex
               time accrued under this paragraph must be used or forfeited no later than 120 days
               after it accrues.


### 17.    COURT TIME
        A.     Court time, as defined in this Agreement, is any legal, equitable, or administrative
               proceeding arising as a result of the performance of the employee's duties with the
               District, where the employee is subpoenaed to appear in court on a civil or criminal
               case.

        B.     The employee will tum in any subpoena fees to the District that the employee
               receives as a result of going to court.

        C.     All witness fees, excluding mileage allowance, and related remuneration paid for
               appearance in court proceedings during the employee's scheduled shift, or for which
               the employee is entitled to compensation by the District, shall be turned over to the
               District.


Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 13 of 30
### 18.     HOLIDAYS
        A.      Employees will accrue 8.66 hours per month for personal time off in lieu of
                holidays. Time off in lieu of holidays taken by employees will be deducted on an
                hour-for-hour basis. In the event of death, termination or resignation of an employee
                during the initial six months of employment, no payment in lieu of holiday time off
                shall be made. Thereafter, employees are entitled to payment of accrued personal
                time off in lieu of holidays, prorated through any portion of the last pay period.

        B.      Upon application, which can be made no more than twice per contract year, an employee
                may be paid for up to 48 hours per contract year fo r personal time accrued under this
                Section 18. Up to 96 hours of personal time may be carried from fiscal year to fiscal year.
                Employees who have accrued more than 96 hours of personal (holiday) time as of July l of
                the current fiscal year will forfeit any time above that 96-hour limit.

### 19.      TIME MANAGEMENT
                 The specific application of this section will be governed by the 9-1-1 Employee's
                 Association Time Management Supervisors Program (Appendix B of this
                 Agreement).

         A.     Continuous service for the purpose of determining monthly earned time
                management accrual shall be paid service to the District unbroken by separation
                from the District, except tJ1at time spent on military leave, paid sick-bank leave,
                time off resulting from an occupational disability, paid education or law
                enforcement training leave, or as an employee o f Deschutes County, shall be
                included as continuous service. Time spent on other types of authorized unpaid
                leave will not be counted as part of continuous service, provided that employees
                returning from such leave and employees on layoff status shall be entitled to credit
                for service prior to the leave or layoff.

         B.     No payment shall be made for time management leave lost by an employee because
                of accrual limitations, unless the fai lure to take vacation is caused by the District or
                the Director's insistence that the employee be at work during employee's scheduled
                vacation.

         C.     Vacation Sign-Ups.

                I.    Employees shall be permitted to request and obtain approval for vacation time
                      inclusive of the number of hours they w ill accrue at the beginning of the
                      following year. Employees shall sign up for vacation by seniority w ithin the
                      supervisor classification. The first round of bidding shall be taken in full two-
                      week increments. After completion of the first round of bidding, supervisors
                      may schedule additional vacation time inclusive of the number of hours they
                      will accrue. Vacation signups shall ensure that supervisory coverage is
Deschutes 9-1- 1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 14 of30
                     maintained, and the District may refuse requested vacation time to maintain
                     supervisory coverage.

               2.    Denials of vacation or cancellation of vacations shall be in writing. In the event
                     of death, termination or resignation of an employee during the initial six (6)
                     months of employment, no payment in lieu of time management leave shall be
                     made. In the event of death, termination or resignation of employment after
                     the employee has served six (6) consecutive months and is otherwise entitled
                     to time management credits, the employee shall be entitled to payment for
                     accrued unused time management leave. In the event of death, earned but
                     unused time management leave shall be paid in the same manner as salary due
                     to the deceased employee.

        D.     lllness, Injury or Use of Protected Leave

                Pursuant to the 9-1-1 Employee's Association Supervisors Time Management Program,
                time management leave may also be granted for the following reasons:

                1.   Personal illness or injury of the employee;

                2.   An illness of the employee's family member as defined by OFLA or FMLA;
                3.   During leave periods that qualify as OFLA or FMLA protected absences.

        E.      An employee may only receive pay for time management leave to the extent the
                employee has accrued leave. If an employee has no accrued leave, leave without
                pay may be granted pursuant to OFLA and FMLA guidelines.

         F.     Upon application by the employee, leave without pay and other employee benefits
                may be granted by the District for the remaining period of disability after accrued
                time management leave has been exhausted. The District may require the employee
                to submit a certificate from a physician periodically during the period of such
                absence. Time management and Holiday leave shall not be accumulated during the
                period of such absence without pay.

         G.     In the event an employee needs to utilize time management leave pursuant to this
                Section, the employee shall notify the on-duty supervisor of the pending absence at
                the earliest possible time prior to the comm encement of the employee's work shift,
                normally at least four (4) hours prior to a swing shift or night shift, or at least two
                (2) hours prior to a day shift. The employee will advise the nature or reason for the
                absence and the expected length of the absence, unless the employee is unable to do
                so because of the serious nature of an illness or injury. If the employee's manager
                is unavailable, the employee will provide the notification required by this paragraph
                to the Director.

Deschutes 9-1- l Employees Association
July l , 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 15 of 30
        H.     Time management leave used shall be on an hour-for-hour basis.

        I.     When an injury occurs in the course of employment, the District's obligation to
               pay wages under this Section is limited to the difference between any payment
               received under Workers' Compensation laws and the employee's net salary.
               When an employee receives such compensation under this Section, pro-rated
               charges will be made against the employee's accrued time management leave.

        J.     A physician's statement documenting an employee's illness may be required at the
               option of the Director or his/her designee when there is a reasonable suspicion that
               an employee is abusing time management leave privileges, to be paid for by the
               District. Abuse of time management leave privileges shall be treated in accordance
               with the discipline and discharge provisions of this Agreement.

        K.     Unused sick leave credits shall be converted to retirement benefits in accordance
               with ORS 257. I 53.

### 20.    WORKERS' COMPENSATION
               All employees will be insured through the State Accident Insurance Fw1d, a private
               insurer, or through self-insurance by the District, under the Oregon State Workers'
               Compensation Act for occupational disabilities while at work for the District.


### 21.     LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITH PAY
                Employees may request the following types of leave of absence with pay:

         A.     An employee shall be granted two (2) shifts of bereavement leave with regular
                salary in the event of death in the immediate family of the employee if the person
                who is deceased resided within the State of Oregon. An employee shall be granted
                three (3) shifts of bereavement leave with regular salary in the event of death in the
                immediate family of the employee if the person who is deceased resided outside of
                the State of Oregon. The above leave shall be credited against OFLA approved
                bereavement leave which allows for up to two (2) weeks of leave to attend the
                funeral of a family member and make arrangements necessitated by the death of a
                family member as defined by the statute. "Immediate family" is defined as spouse,
                same-sex domestic partner (as defined by Oregon law), parent, child, brother, sister,
                mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, and any member of the
                employee's immediate household. In the event the death of an immediate fami ly
                member causes the employee to need additional time away from work, the employee
                may use accrued time management leave.

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 16 of30
        B.     Employees will be granted time off for military leave in accordance with State and
               Federal law.

        C.     Employees shall be granted leave with pay for service upon a jury. However, any
               money the employee receives as compensation for jury duty, excluding mileage,
               shall be turned over to the District. Upon being excused from jury service for any
               day, the employee shall immediately contact the employee's supervisor or the
               Director for assignment for the remainder of the employee's regular workday, unless
               the employee's jury duty has been for such hours that causes the employee to be so
               tired as to be unfit for duty. In those instances, the employee may utilize time
               management leave.

### 22.     LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
        A.     Upon written application by an employee, leave without pay and other employee
               benefits may be granted by the Director after all accrued leave has been exhausted.

        B.     The District may require that an employee who applies for leave without pay for
               medical reasons submit a certificate from a physician periodically during the period
               of such absence which establishes the medical necessity for such leave. Such
               certificate must establish to a reasonable medical certainty that the requested leave
               is medically necessary. To the extent this subsection conflicts with the requirements
               of OFLA or FMLA, the requirements of those laws will prevail. Leave without pay
               may be granted for situations involving the death of an immediate family member
               (as defined in ORS 659A), a personal or family medical emergency (as defined in
               County Policy HR-12 Family and Medical Leave), or extreme hardship (such as an
               employee that has severe fire damage to their residence).

        C.     Time management and holiday leave credits shall not accumulate during any period
               of absence without pay.
        D.      The Director may, in the Director's sole discretion, grant a leave of absence without
                pay not to exceed ninety (90) calendar days.

        E.      Leaves of absence without pay for periods in excess of ninety (90) days must be
                approved by the Deschutes County Administrator.

        F.      During such leave, if an employee so requests and District, County and medical and
                benefit plan polices permit, the District will maintain, at the employee's expense, all
                benefits provided by this District, with the exception of time management accrual.
                If the employee does not request the maintenance of the employee's benefits as
                provided herein, the District is under no obligation to do so.

        G.      Should an employee who requests the continuation of benefits during a leave of

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July l , 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 17 of 30
               absence without pay as provided in Subsection F above and fail to pay the premiums
               for employee benefits in advance, such failure to pay shall result in the termination
               of both the leave of absence and the continuation of the employee's employee
               benefits.

### 23.    OTHER LEAVES
               Parental leave may be granted upon the request of an employee according to OFLA
               and FMLA. Parental leave may be extended or renewed for an additional period, at
               the discretion of the Director. Employees may be granted time off with pay for
               educational purposes for reasonable lengths oftime to attend conferences, seminars,
               briefing sessions, training programs and other programs of similar nature that are
               intended to improve or upgrade the skill and professional ability of the employee in
               the Director's sole discretion.

### 24.    RETIREMENT
               The District shall be a participant in the Oregon Public Service Retirement Plan
               (OPSRP) and/or the Public Employee's Retirement System (PERS).

### 25.     INSURANCE
        A.     Health insurance is to include the fo llowing:

               1.    Medical insurance
               2.    Vision Insurance
               3.    Dental Insurance
               4.    Prescription Drug Insurance
               5.    Orthodontic Insurance

        B.     Health insurance benefits will be provided to employees under the same conditions
               and/or restrictions as provided by the Deschutes County Health Benefits Plan.

               Should legislation be enacted in Oregon during the term of this Agreement which
               provides employees the ability to become fully vested in and claim their PERS
               retirement with unreduced benefits after 25 years of qualifying public employment
               to the same extent as qualifying "Police and Fire" employees, the parties may
               reopen bargaining on this Section 26 solely on the issue of whether employees who
               retire after working for the District for a continuous 25 years or more as regularly
               benefited employees on a full-time basis will be afforded the ability to purchase
               into the Deschutes County Health Benefits Plan at the same cost-share and to the
               same extent as quali fying active full-time employees.
        C.      The monthly employee premium contribution will be determined as a percentage of

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 18 of 30
               the per-FTE cost to Deschutes County of providing health benefits as required by
               Deschutes County's health benefits plan. (The per-FTE cost will be calculated by an
               actuarial valuation conducted by Deschutes County at its sole discretion.) The
               monthly employee premium contribution may only be increased to a maximum of
               nine and one-half percent (9.5%) of the per-FIE cost to Deschutes County of
               providing health benefits under the health benefits plan adopted by Deschutes
               County each fiscal year.

        D.     Throughout the duration of this Agreement, the Association will have an employee
               representative on the County Employee Benefits Advisory Committee.

        E.     Other insurance benefits will be provided to employees in the bargaining unit under
               the same conditions and/or restrictions as provided to the employees of Deschutes
               County. If coverage is adjusted and/or modified for Deschutes County employees,
               the same will apply to employees within the bargaining unit. Other insurance is to
               include the fo llowing:

               1.    Employee Life Insurance
               2.    Dependent Life Insurance
               3.    Long-term Disability Insurance
               4.    Workers' Compensation Insurance
               5.    Unemployment Insurance
               6.    Retirement Health Insurance

        F.     IRS Section 125 Plan

               In addition to health insurance and other insurance, the District will make
               available to employees a qualified IRS Section 125 Plan.

        G.      Eligibility

               Employees will be eligible for insurance benefits in accordance with this
               Agreement.

        H.     Coverage will not be duplicated for married couples and registered domestic
               partners (as defined under Oregon law) who both work for the District, Deschutes
               County, or the Central Oregon Intergovernmental Council (COIC). One spouse or
               registered domestic partner will be covered as the primary recipient of coverage.

        I.     The District may re-open Section 25 of this Agreement if changes to Federal health
               care law require substantive changes to the health care plan provided by this
               Agreement.

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 19 of 30
### 26.     GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

        A.         A grievance for the purpose of this Agreement is defined as an alleged violation of
                   a specific tenn of this Agreement. A day is defined as a calendar day.

        B.         In an effort to provide for resolution of disputes, the parties agree to the following
                   procedures:




        Any employee claiming a breach of any specific provision of this Agreement may refer
        the matter, in writing, to the Operations Manager within twenty-one (2 1) days from the
        occurrence thereof, or the employee's knowledge of the facts thereof. The employee shall
        provide a copy of the written grievance to the Association. The Operations Manager shall
        respond to the grievance in writing as quickly as possible, but no later than twenty-one
        (21) calendar days after the grievance is filed.

        Step II:

        If, after fifteen (1 5) days from the date of the filing of the grievance with the Operations
        Manager, the grievance remains unadjusted, the grievance may be submitted within fifteen
        ( 15) days to the Director, along with a written statement as to why the Operation Manager's
        Step I response does not adequately resolve the grievance. The Director shall meet with the
        aggrieved party, who may request an Association representative at the meeting. The
        meeting between the Director and the aggrieved- party shall be within fifteen (15) days of
        the Director's receipt of the written grievance. The Director shall respond to the grievance
        in writing within fifteen (15) days of such meeting. Neither party's Step TT written
        statements nor responses shall be introduced into evidence in a subsequent arbitration
        hearing on the grievance for the purpose of limiting any legal theory which either party
        may introduce under the facts.

        Step Ill:

        If after fifteen ( 15) days of the meeting between the Director and the aggrieved party the
        grievance remains unadjusted, the grievance may be submitted within fifteen (15) days to
        the Deschutes County Administrator. The Deschutes County Administrator shall meet with
        the Director and the aggrieved party (separately or together) in an attempt to resolve the
        grievance. The meeting or meetings with the Deschutes County Administrator shall be
        within fifteen (15) days of the date of the written grievance is delivered to the Deschutes
        County Administrator. The Deschutes County Administrator shall respond to the grievance
        in writing within ten ( 10) days of the meeting or meetings.


Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I, 2024.- June 30, 2026
Page 20 of 30
        Step IV:

        If the grievance is not resolved within twenty (20) days from the submission of the
        grievance to the Deschutes County Administrator, the Association will have ten ( l 0) days
        to serve notice, in writing, to the Deschutes County Administrator of its intent to submit the
        grievance to final and binding arbitration. The arbitrator shall be selected by mutual
        agreement of the parties. If the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator within fifteen (15) days
        of submitting the grievance to arbitration, the arbitrator shall be chosen in the following
        manner:

                I.    Either party may request a list of five (5) names of arbitrators from the Oregon
                      State Conciliation Service. Within seven (7) days of the receipt of the list, the
                      parties shall alternately strike names from the list until one name remains, and
                      the remaining person on the list after the strikes have been completed shall
                      serve as the arbitrator. The party striking the first name shall be determined
                      by a coin flip.

                2.    The arbitrator shall hold a hearing promptly and shall issue a decision within
                      thirty (3 0) days of the hearing. The arbitrator's decision shall be in writing and
                      shall set forth findings of fact, reasoning and conclusions of the issues
                      submitted. The powers of the arbitrator shall be limited to determining if the
                      Agreement has been violated; he/she shall have no authority to alter, modify,
                      vacate or amend any of the terms of the Agreement.

                3.    The cost of the arbitrator and court reporter (if the court reporter is requested
                      by both parties) shall be borne by the losing party. Each party shall be
                      responsible for costs of presenting its own case to arbitration.

        C.      Any time limits specified in the grievance procedure may be waived by mutual
                consent of the parties. Failure to submit a grievance in accordance with these time
                limits without such waiver shall constitute abandonment of the grievance. Failure
                by the District to submit a reply after knowledge of the grievance by the party
                responsible for the reply within the specified time will move the grievance to the
                next step in the grievance procedure. A grievance may be terminated at any time
                upon receipt of a signed statement from the Association or the employee. Each party
                shall be responsible for compensating its own representatives and witnesses at any
                step of this procedure. If the parties agree in writing, Steps I, II and III may be
                waived.

### 27.     DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE
        A.      Disciplinary actions shall include the following:

                I.      Oral reprimand
Deschutes 9-1- 1 Employees Association
July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 21 of30
               2.      Written reprimand
               3.      Suspension
               4.      Demotion
               5.      Discharge

        B.      Discipline may be invoked by the Director or the employee's supervisor only for
                just cause. Conduct reflecting a discredit upon the District, or which is a hindrance
                to the effective performance of District functions, shall be considered reason for
                disciplinary action. Such reason may include, but shall not be limited to,
                misconduct,      inefficiency,   incompetence,      insubordination,    misfeasance,
                malfeasance, the willful giving of false information, or the withholding of
                information, and violation of District rules. Disciplinary action need not be
                progressive but shall be appropriate for the nature of the offense committed.

                Oral reprimands imposed upon an employee shall not be subject to the grievance
                procedure of this Agreement. If the Director or supervisor has reason to discipline
                an employee, the Director or supervisor shall make reasonable efforts to impose
                such discipline in a manner that will not embarrass or humiliate the employee before
                other employees or the public.

        C.      Employees who are the focus of a disciplinary investigation shall be told of the
                complaint at the beginning of the investigation unless doing so would compromise
                the investigation. At the beginning of the interview, the employee shall be informed
                of the nature of the complaint or charges before the employee is required to respond
                to questions concerning the same. The employee will be given reasonable breaks
                for personal purposes. The Association or the District may tape record the interview.

        D.      If the proposed type of discipline to be imposed is of an economic nature, the
                District shall give the employee notice of the proposed discipline, copies of all
                investigative reports that directly relate to the incident for which the District is
                considering discipline, unless the District is denied access to a document over which
                it has no control, and the employee shall have ten (10) calendar days from the receipt
                of the investigative reports to respond either in writing or in person as to why the
                proposed discipline would be inappropriate.

### 28.     PROBATIONARY PERIOD
        A.      Every new employee shall serve a probationary period of six (6) consecutive
                months. If an employee takes leave greater than thirty (30) days during his or her
                probationary period, the District may extend the employee's probationary period for
                the same amount of time the employee was on such leave. Once an employee has
                successfully completed the probationary period, the employee shall be considered
                a regular employee and granted seniority retroactive to the date of the employee's
                most recent hiring.

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 22 of 30
       B.      Newly hired probationary employees shall serve at the discretion of the Director
               and may be discharged at the discretion of the Director during the probationary
               period. Discharge of probationary employees shall not be subject to the grievance
               procedure.

       C.      Regular full-time employees promoted into a higher classification shall serve a
               promotional probationary period of six (6) months. This period of probation may
               be extended by the Director for an additional six (6) months to further evaluate the
               employee. If a promotional probationary employee does not satisfactorily complete
               promotional probation because of inadequate performance in the promoted
               position, the District shall return the employee to the position held by the employee
               at the time of his or her promotion, at the same wages and benefits the employee
               had in his or her previously held position. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
               promotional probationary employees are subject to discipline consistent with
               Section 27.

### 29.     PERSONNEL FILE
        A.     All of an employee's personnel files will be available for the employee's inspection
               during normal working hours by appointment with the Director. Should an
               employee desire a copy of any item in the files, such copy shall be provided to the
               employee provided the employee signs a receipt for the copy. The employee has the
               right to respond in writing to any item placed in the files. No derogatory item shall
               be placed in an employee's personnel file without the knowledge of the employee.
               The District will maintain the confidentiality of the files as per State law and will
               not release any information in the files to other than those authorized within the
               District without the consent of the affected employee except where such release is
               compelled by either an order of a court or by State law. This in no means restricts
               the Association's access to personnel files as necessary to carry out its duties of
               representation.

        B.     Written reprimands and suspensions without pay shall remain a permanent part of
               an employee's personnel files. Upon request by the affected employee, documented
               oral reprimands shall be deemed stale after twenty-four (24) months.


### 30.     RULES
               The parties jointly recognize the District's Governing Board and the Director are
               responsible to the citizens of the County and the public generally for the
               performance of the functions and services performed by the District. These
               responsibilities cannot be delegated, nor can they be the subject of a collective
               bargaining agreement. For this reason, it is jointly recognized the Governing Board
               and the Director must retain a broad authority to fulfill and implement their

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 23 of 30
               responsibilities and may do so by work rule, oral or written, existing or future. It is
               agreed, however, that no work rules will be promulgated or implemented which are
               inconsistent with a specifi c provision of this Agreement, provided that the
               requirements of Oregon law will always be paramount. The District will bargain
               over changes to mandatory subjects as required by Oregon law. All work rules
               which have been or shall be reduced to writing, will be furnished to the Association.


### 31.    LABOR/MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

        A.     The Director shall meet at mutually convenient times with the Association
               Labor/Management Committee, ifsuch a committee exists. The Labor/Management
               Committee meetings with the Director shall be held, if practicable, at a time not to
               interfere with the Committee member's regular work period. The Association
               Labor/Management Committee shall consist of two (2) employees selected by the
               Association.

        B.     The purpose of the Labor/Management Committee will be to adjust pending
               grievances and to discuss procedures for avoiding future grievances. In addition,
               the Committee may discuss with the Director other issues which would improve
               relationships between the parties. Prior notice of topics for discussion at such
               meetings shall be furnished by each party to the other. Matters of on-the-job safety
               may be raised at the meetings of the Labor/Management Committee.

### 32.     FUNDING
        A.     The parties recognize that revenue needed to fund the wages and benefits provided
               by the Agreement must be approved annually by established procedures, and in
               certain circumstances by vote of the citizens of Deschutes County. The level of
               employment within the bargaining unit is, therefore, contingent upon sources of
               revenue, and, where applicable, annual voter budget approval.

        B.     The District has no intention of reducing the level of employment within the
               bargaining unit because of budgetary limitations but cannot and does not guarantee
               any level of employment in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement.

        C.     In the event of budgetary limitations as determined by the District, the District shall
               have the right to reduce the level of employment within the bargaining unit in
               accordance with the layoff provisions of this Agreement. At the option of the
               District, the Director may present an option to such layoff to the Association, which
               option may include a reduction in wages or benefits currently being received by
               employees in the bargaining unit. The Association, upon receipt of such option from
               the Director, shall conduct a vote among its members as to whether to accept or
               reject the Director's proposed option to a layoff. If the Association members accept

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 24 of 30
                the option proposed by the director, then the option shall be implemented by the
                District in lieu of a layoff. If the Association rejects the option proposed by the
                Director, then the Director has no authority to cut the level of wages or benefits
                provided by this Agreement.

         D.     The District agrees to include in its annual budget request amount sufficient to fund
                the wages and benefits provided by this Agreement but makes no guarantee as to
                the passage of such budget requests or voter approval thereof.


### 33.     SAVINGS CLAUSE
                 Should a section, paragraph or portion thereof of this Agreement be held unlawful
                 and unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction over the subject matter, such
                 decision shall apply only to the specific section, paragraph or portion thereof
                 directly specified in the decision. Upon the issuance of any such decision, the parties
                 agree immediately to enter into negotiations for a substitute, if possible, for the
                 invalidated section, paragraph or portion thereof.




Deschutes 9-1- 1 Employees Association
July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 25 of 30
### 34.    DURATION
                This Agreement shall be effective July I, 2024, and shall remain in full force and
                effective through June 30, 2026. After June 30, 2026, this Agreement shall be
                automatically renewed from year to year, unless either the District or the
                Association give written notice to the other no later than January I, prior to the
                aforesaid expiration date of the Agreement of its desire to modify the Agreement.



      SIGNATURES

      DESCHUTES 9-1-1 EMPLOYEES
      ASSOCIATION                                      For the DESCHUTES COUNTY 9-1-1
                                                       SERVICE DISTRICT, by and through the
                                                       BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
      Dated this _   day of January, 2025              DESCHUTESCOUNTY,OREGON, ASTHE
                                                       GOVERNING BODY OF THE DESCHUTES
                                                       COUNTY 9-1-1 SERV ICE DISTRICT
      Krista Mugavero, President
                                                                      tJ<
                                                       Dated this ~    day of January, 2025



      Trinity Diggs, Vice President                   l
                                                          ~ony DeBone, Chair      -


                                                          ~~
                                                       Phi l Chang, Commissioner




                                                      ATTEST:


                                                          ~cbi
                                                      Brenda Fritsvold, Recordin~
                                                                                          rM
                                                                                           ry




Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I , 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 26 of 30
### 34.     DURATION
                 This Agreement shall be effective July I, 2024, and shall remain in full force and
                 effective through June 30, 2026. After June 30, 2026, this Agreement shall be
                 automatically renewed from year to year, unless either the District or the
                 Association give written notice to the other no later than January I, prior to the
                 aforesaid expiration date of the Agreement of its desire to modify the Agreement.



       SIGNATURES

       DESCHUTES 9-1-1 EMPLOYEES
       ASSOCTATTON                                      For the DESCHUTES COUNTY 9-1-1
                                                        SERVICE DlSTRICT, by and through the
                                                        BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF
                           f January, 2025              DESCHUTES COUNTY, OREGON, AS THE
                                                        GOVERNING BODY OF THE DESCHUTES
                                                        COUNTY 9-1-1 SERVICE DISTRICT
                 gavcro, President                      Dated this _ _ day of January, 2025



      ~~e                  P,esidenl                    Anthony DeBone, Chair


                                                        Patti Adair, Vice Chair


                                                       Phil Chang, Commissioner




                                                       ATTEST:



                                                       Brenda Fritsvold, Recording Secretary




Deschutes 9-1- l Employees Association
July I , 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 26 of 30
                                              Appendix A

         FISCAL YEAR WAGE SCHEDU LE - Effective beginning with the July 2024 Pay Period

The table below reflects a one-time wage adjustment of approximately 5.0% for the Supervisor,
9-1-1 classification, effective beginning with the July 2024 pay period. This adjustment will be
retroactively applied only for employees who are withing the bargaining unit as of the date of
ratification of this Agreement.

                                                                                                         7
                            I      1          2           3           4           5           6

Supervisor, 9-1-1               $47.6884   $50.0728    $52.5764    $55.2052    $57.9654    $60.8638   $63.9070


Effective July 1, 2024, a cost-of-living increase of 4.0% was provided to employees for the 2024-
2025 fiscal year.

Effective July 1, 2025, there shall be a cost-of-li ving increase to the 2025-2026 fiscal year wage
schedule with a minimum of 1.0% and a maximum of 4.0%.

The cost-of-living increase shall be measured by using the "average 12-month CPI percentage" from
the twelve months of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U), West Region,
Size Class B/C cities using each month's CPI 12-month percentage change from Febniary of the
prior year to January of the current year. The CPI% used for each month is the" 12-month percent
change" - meaning the month is compared (for the CPI index) to the same month from the previous
year.




        Deschutes 9-1- 1Employees Association
        July I, 2024 - June 30, 2026
        Page 27 of30
                                            APPEN DIX B


  SUBJECT: TIME MANAGEMENT-DESCHUTES COUNTY 9-1- 1 EMPLOYEES
  ASSOCIATION - SUPERVISOR PROGRAM


  I.       PURPOSE

           It is the purpose of the Deschutes County Time Management Program to provide
           employees represented by the Deschutes County 9-1 - l Employee Association
           ("Association") with a leave-with-pay program that is easily understood, responsive to
           individual needs, and easy to administer. This program is a lso intended to eliminate any
           abuse of sick leave while rewarding employees for faithfu l attendance and productivity.

  II.      SCOPE

           This program applies to employees of the Deschutes Cow1ty 9 11 Service District who
           are employed in the Supervisor, 911 job classification and are represented by the
           Association. Employees covered by the provisions of this program shall not be eligible
           for separate vacation or sick leave benefits.

  Ill .    DEFfNITIONS

           For the purpose of this program , the following definitions shall apply:

           "Sick leave bank" is leave available for use when an employee is sick and absent from work
           for the equivalent of three entire workdays due to an illness or injury. Leave accrued above the
           annual maximum and not sold back is transferred to the sick leave bank. Sick leave is not paid
           out.

           "Sick leave vault" is leave available for use when an employee is sick and absent from work
           for the equivalent of three entire workdays due to an illness or injury. One-halfof the sick
           leave vault hours will be paid to the employee upon termination of employment

  IV.      LEAVE-WITH-PAY-PROVISIONS

           A.     All employees entering this progra m will be credited with their existing
                  vacation time balance, should any remain. As full-time, exempt employees,
                  employees subject to the program will earn leave based on full-time service,
                  in accordance with the foll owing schedule:

          Months of                    Hours of Leave                       Earned Leave
          Service                                                           Accumulation
          0-48 months                     2 16 hours                        18 hours/month
          49 - I 08 months                240 hours                         20 hours/month
          I09 - 168 months                264 hours                         22 hours/month
          169 - 228 months                288 hours                         24 hours/month
          229+ months                     31 2 hours                        26 hours/month

Deschutes 9-1 - 1 Employees Association
July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 28 of30
         B.     Employees may accumulate time management leave. including the previous
                vacation balance, if any, to a maximum of twice his or her annual time
                management accumulation. On March 3 1 of each year, any employee credited
                with accrued leave greater than twice the annual accumulation shall have the
                amount above the maximum accumulation transferred to their sick leave bank.
                If the employee does not have a sick leave bank, one will be established for
                the employee. Any adjustment to the employee's leave bank based upon the
                employee exceeding the maximum accumulation will be made in April each
                year. An employee who has acquired the maximum allowable accumulation
                of time management leave may continue to accumulate time management
                leave for the balance of the following year (from April to March). However,
                the employee must use sufficient leave to reduce their accumulated leave to
                the maximum allowed prior to the following March 31. The excess will be
                transferred to the employee's sick leave bank.

         C.     During the course of the year, absence from work for any reason other than on-
                the-job illness or injury covered by Workers Compensation shall be charged
                against "earned leave."

         D.     Earned time management leave shall accrue whenever an employee is on paid
                status with the District. Workers compensation is not paid by the District,
                therefore, an employee absent from work who is receiving workers
                compensation benefits is not considered to be on paid status with the District
                and will not accrue time management leave.

         E.     Employees do not accrue time management leave when on leave without pay.

         F.     Leave accrued under Section 19 of the Agreement shall be maintained in a
                separate "holiday leave" bank.

         G.     Upon termination of employment, a ll of the employee's accumulated and
                unused time management leave shall be paid to the employee at the employee's
                rate of pay in effect at the time of termination. Upon termination of
                employment, sick leave banks will not be paid out.

         H.     Upon the death ofan employee, a ll of the employee's accrued and unused time
                management leave shall be paid in accordance with state law at the employee's
                current rate of pay in effect at the time of death.

         I.     During the first five years of employment, employees shall be required to take
                a minimum of one week of time management leave per year. Thereafter,
                employees shall be required to take a minimum of two weeks of time
                management leave per year.

         J.     After one year of continuous employment, employees may request to convert
                up to 120 hours of accrued time management leave to cash on an annual basis.
                To be eligible, an employee must maintain a minjmum balance of one year's
                accrual of annual leave and must have used at least 48 hours of time

Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association
July I , 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 29 of30
                 management leave during the previous twelve months. A request for conversion
                 of annual leave to cash must be approved by the Director subject to budget
                 restrictions and is allowed twice each fiscal year.

         K.      During the last three years prior to retirement, employees may sell up to 200
                 hours of time management accrual each fi scal year at the current rate of pay.
                 No employee will be entitled to this option more than three years prior to
                 retirement. This paragraph is not subject to any of the limitations expressed in
                 Paragraphs I. and J. above

  V.     PRIOR SICK LEAVE ACCUMULATION

         A.      Employees with an existing sick leave bank as of the date this policy is signed shall have
                 those hours moved to a "sick leave vault." One-halfof the employee's sick leave vault
                 balance will be paid to the employee upon termination of employment or, upon death of
                 the employee (in accordance with state law). No additional hours will be transferred lo
                 the sick leave vault.

         B.      When an employee transfers to a position covered by the time management program, the
                 employee's existing sick leave accrual will be accounted for separately from time
                 management leave in a sick leave bank. No additional sick leave will be earned or
                 accrued. Employees will be allowed to convert up to I 00 hours of existing sick leave to
                 the employee's time management leave bank on a two-for-one basis. (Example: 100
                 hours of sick leave will convert to 50 hours of earned time management leave).

         C.      No compensation for accrued sick leave in the sick leave bank will be provided to any
                 employee for any reason.

  VI.    USE OF ACCRUED LEA VE DUE TO ILLNESS OR INJURY

         A.      Unless otherwise required by law, the sick leave bank and sick leave vault
                 may only be used by the employee after the employee has been absent from
                 work for the equivalent of three entire workdays due to the same illness or
                 injury. Time off during the first three (3) days will be deducted from the
                 employee's accrued and unused time management leave or, if the employee
                 does not have suffic ient time management leave, will be deducted from
                 accrued compensatory time or any other paid leave time




Deschutes 9- 1- 1 Employees Association
July 1, 2024 - June 30, 2026
Page 30 of30
