                                               7.23.25 12:30 pm




         RE'II~
           t-
       LEGAL COUNSEL




                                   AGREEMENT

                                    BETWEEN

                                DESCHUTES COUNTY

                                       AND

      THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL
                      EMPLOYEES LOCAL 3997




                           July 1, 2025 - June 30, 2030




Document Number 2025-597
                    Agreement Between Deschutes County and the American Federation of State,
                                  County and Municipal Employees Local 3997

                                           July 1, 2025 – June 30, 2030

                                            TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                                               PAGE

PREAMBLE                                                                                              2
### ARTICLE 1 -           RECOGNITION                                                                     2
### ARTICLE 2 -           UNION SECURITY                                                                  2
### ARTICLE 3 -           MANAGEMENT RIGHTS                                                               4
### ARTICLE 4 -           NON-DISCRIMINATION                                                              5
### ARTICLE 5 -           PROBATIONARY, TEMPORARY AND SEASONAL EMPLOYEES                                  5
### ARTICLE 6 -           DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE                                                        6
### ARTICLE 7 -           GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE                                                             6
### ARTICLE 8 -           SALARY ADMINISTRATION                                                           8
### ARTICLE 9 -           ON CALL AND CALL BACK TIME                                                      9
### ARTICLE 10 -          HOURS OF WORK                                                                   10
### ARTICLE 11 -          OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY TIME                                                  11
### ARTICLE 12 -          WORKING-OUT-OF-CLASS AND LEAD PAY                                               11
### ARTICLE 13 -          VACANCIES                                                                       12
### ARTICLE 14 -          ASSIGNMENT OF PERSONNEL                                                         12
### ARTICLE 15 -          PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS                                                         13
### ARTICLE 16 -          LONGEVITY AND LENGTH OF SERVICE                                                 13
### ARTICLE 17 -          HOLIDAYS                                                                        14
### ARTICLE 18 -          TIME MANAGEMENT                                                                 15
### ARTICLE 19 -          SICK LEAVE                                                                      15
### ARTICLE 20 -          LEAVES OF ABSENCE                                                               16
### ARTICLE 21 -          HEALTH AND WELFARE                                                              18
### ARTICLE 22 -          RETIREMENT                                                                      19
### ARTICLE 23 -          TRAVEL EXPENSES                                                                 20
### ARTICLE 24 -          SAFETY                                                                          20
### ARTICLE 25 -          PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                                        20
### ARTICLE 26 -          RIGHT TO CONTRACT                                                               20
### ARTICLE 27 -          SEPARABILITY                                                                    21
### ARTICLE 28 -          SCOPE OF AGREEMENT                                                              21
### ARTICLE 29 -          TERM OF THE AGREEMENT                                                           21
### ARTICLE 30 -          WAGES                                                                           24
### ARTICLE 31 -          GENERAL PROVISIONS                                                              24


APPENDIX “A” -TIME MANAGEMENT PROGRAM                                                                 25

APPENDIX “B” -DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ADVISORY
              COMMITTEE                                                                               29




AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                Page |1
                                              PREAMBLE

This Agreement is made and entered into by and between Deschutes County (hereinafter the County) and the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Council 75, (hereinafter the Union) for the
purpose of fixing wages, hours, benefits, and employment relations as defined by ORS 243.650(7) and the
Employment Relations Board.

It is also the purpose of this Agreement to promote the mutual interests of the County and its employees, to
promote a positive relationship between the Employer and the Union, to establish a diplomatic procedure for the
resolution of differences, and to provide for the operation of the County’s business under methods which will
further, to the fullest extent possible, the safety of the employees, economy and efficiency of operation,
elimination of waste, realization of maximum quantity and quality of output, cleanliness, protection of property
and avoidance of interruptions to production. The parties will cooperate fully to secure the advancement and
achievement of these purposes.


### ARTICLE 1 – RECOGNITION

Section 1
The County recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive bargaining agent for all employees of Deschutes
County, excluding supervisory and confidential employees, temporary employees, employees who work less
than half-time and employees included in other bargaining units.

Section 2
If the County establishes a new classification included in the bargaining unit or reclassifies an existing
bargaining unit position, the County shall notify the Union in writing in a timely manner.


### ARTICLE 2 – UNION SECURITY
Section 1
The Union shall notify the County in writing of its staff representative of the Local, Council 75, or
International, American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, AFL-CIO. Upon proper
introduction and notice, the representative shall have reasonable access to the premises of the County during all
working hours to conduct Union business. These representatives shall observe any security regulations of the
County. Such visits shall not interfere with the normal flow of work.

Section 2
Unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, the internal business of the Union shall be conducted by the
employees during non-duty time, and to the extent practicable in break rooms, lunchrooms and non-duty areas.

Section 3
   A. The Union shall notify the County of the selection of the Officers, Stewards and their alternates.

    B. The Union may appoint a Steward or Stewards. Activities by a Union Steward shall not interfere with
       his/her normal duties or the performance of the normal duties of other employees. The Steward shall be
       a regular full- or part-time employee, who shall in addition to his/her regular assigned work, perform the
       duties set forth herein, as long as such duties may be accomplished without the disruption or interference
       with the work of others. Members who wish to become a steward will participate in Steward training
       through the Union to assist in representation of other Union members. Members will attend Steward
       training during off-duty hours.
AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                            Page |2
    C. The Steward shall bring attention to the County and the Union of any alleged infraction of the terms and
       conditions of the Agreement.

    D. The Steward shall make a good faith effort to resolve individual employee grievances as they may arise
       by working in cooperation with the employee and his/her supervisor and program manager.

    E. Pursuant to ORS 243.798, a Steward or Union Officer may represent a union member for a reasonable
       period of time for a grievance pursuant to Article 7, or pre-disciplinary investigation or hearing pursuant
       to Article 6, without loss of pay, following reasonable notice to his/her supervisor and Department Head.
       One (1) representational Steward or Union Officer shall be permitted to be present without loss of pay.
       To help minimize departmental impact, a Steward or Union Officer working in the department where the
       grievant or subject of discipline is employed shall be utilized. If there is no Steward or Union Officer in
       the department, a Steward from a different department may be utilized, if the express written permission
       of the Department Head of such other department is granted. Such permission may be withheld by the
       Department Head in the Department Head’s sole discretion. The participation of a Steward or Union
       Officer in a grievance or disciplinary proceeding shall not relieve the Steward or Union Officer of
       responsibility for meeting all performance standards and requirements relevant to their position.

    F. The County shall allow the Union a reasonable amount of paid time for appointed bargaining team
       members to bargain a successor contract to this Agreement.

Section 4
The County agrees to provide bulletin board space for each work site where Union members regularly perform
work for the County to be used exclusively by the Union for the posting of official Union notices. The Union
agrees that it will not post material that is profane, obscene or defamatory of the County.

Section 5
The County agrees to deduct monthly membership dues from the pay of those individuals who request
deductions in writing to the Union. The amount to be deducted shall be certified to the County by the treasurer
of the Union, and the aggregate deduction shall be remitted monthly, together with an itemized statement, to the
treasurer of the Union.

Section 6
The County shall furnish to the Union, monthly, a list of the names, classifications, departments and home
addresses of new employees in the bargaining unit. The County shall furnish the Union with a monthly listing
of employees who have terminated from the bargaining unit during the previous month.

Section 7
Upon request and approval the Union shall be allowed the use of meeting rooms of the County for meetings
when such meeting rooms are available and the meeting would not interfere with the business of the County.

Section 8
The Union shall have the right to meet with new employees for 30 minutes during the County’s New Employee
Orientation. If an employee chooses to attend this meeting with the Union, the time spent at the meeting is paid
County time.




AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                         Page |3
### ARTICLE 3 – MANAGEMENT RIGHTS

Section 1
The County retains all the customary, usual and exclusive rights, decision-making prerogatives, functions, and
authority connected with, or in any way incident to its responsibility to manage the affairs of the County and its
departments. The County shall have no obligation to bargain with AFSCME with respect to any such subjects
or the exercise of its discretion and decision-making with regard thereto. The express provisions of this
Agreement constitute the only limitations on the rights of the County to manage the business and affairs of the
County. The rights of employees are limited to those specifically limited by the terms of this Agreement. Any
subjects covered by the terms of this Agreement and any subject which was or might have been raised in the
course of collective bargaining are closed to further bargaining for the term hereof, except as provided in ORS
243.698.

Section 2
By way of illustration, the exclusive prerogatives, functions, and rights of the County shall include the
following:

    A. To determine the services to be rendered by the County and its employees to the citizens of the County
       and State of Oregon.

    B. To direct and supervise all operations, functions and policies of the County in which employees are
       employed.

    C. To close or liquidate an office, branch, operation or facility, or combination of facilities, or to relocate,
       reorganize or combine the work of divisions, branches, operations or facilities.

    D. To determine the need for a reduction or an increase in the work force.

    E. To determine the method and manner under which a reduction in work force will be performed,
       consistent with specific provisions of this Agreement.

    F. To implement new, and to revise or discard, wholly or in part, old methods and procedures.

    G. To assign and distribute work.

    H. To assign shifts, workdays, hours of work and work locations, consistent with specific terms of this
       Agreement.

    I. To designate and to assign all work duties.

    J. To introduce new duties and to revise job descriptions and duties, consistent with specific terms of this
       Agreement.

    K. To determine the need for new employees, transfers and promotions.

    L. To determine the qualifications for employees, as well as for transfers and promotions.

    M. To discipline, suspend, demote or discharge an employee as defined in Article 6 of this Agreement.

    N. To establish, revise and implement standards for hiring, classification and promotion.

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                             Page |4
    O. To provide as the County determines necessary, and in its sole discretion any furnishings, fixtures and
       equipment to be used and any matters concerning limitations or conditions for their use.

    P. To maintain order and efficiency in its work sites, facilities and operations.

    Q. To make such reasonable rules and regulations, not in conflict with this Agreement, as the County may
       from time to time deem best for the purposes of maintaining order, safety, and/or effective operation of
       County facilities, and after advance notice thereof to AFSCME and employees, and to require
       compliance therewith by employees.

Section 3
Any of the rights, powers, authority and function of the County had prior to the negotiation of this Agreement
are retained by the County and the expressed provisions of this Agreement constitute the only limitations on the
rights of the County to manage the business of the County. Should the County not exercise the rights, powers,
authority and functions reserved to them, or should they exercise them in a particular way, such conduct shall
not be deemed a waiver of said rights, powers, authority and functions by the County, nor shall such conduct be
deemed or considered a waiver of their right to exercise them in some other way not in conflict with a specific
provision of this Agreement. Any agreement between the County and the Union that is not reduced to writing
and signed by both parties shall be deemed to have not existed.


### ARTICLE 4 – NON-DISCRIMINATION

Section 1
Deschutes County and the Union agree not to discriminate against any employee because of race, color, sex,
gender identity, age, national origin, marital status, religion, political affiliation, physical or mental disability,
Union membership or non-membership or any other classification protected by Oregon or Federal law.

Section 2
The terms of this Agreement shall be applied equally to all members of the bargaining unit.


### ARTICLE 5 – PROBATIONARY, TEMPORARY AND SEASONAL EMPLOYEES

Section 1
Every new employee shall serve a probationary period of twelve (12) months unless extended by mutual written
agreement.

Section 2
Employees who are promoted or moved to a different job classification within his/her department or to a
different department, or transferred to a different department within the same classification shall be required to
serve a 12 month probationary period unless modified by mutual written agreement.

Section 3
Each employee shall be evaluated during his/her probationary period, with one at six (6) months, and one at
twelve (12) months, unless modified by mutual agreement between the employee and his/her Department Head.
If an employee’s performance is not satisfactory, he/she shall be given notice of the areas of his/her
deficiencies. An employee shall advance to the next step of his/her pay grade upon satisfactory completion of
his/her probationary period and has received an overall “effective, meets standards” or better performance
evaluation. (Please see Article 8, Section 3(B) for timelines).

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                                Page |5
Section 4
Any employee who is terminated during his/her probationary period shall be given written notice of their
termination.

Section 5
Disciplinary action for probationary employees, including termination of employment, is not subject to the
grievance procedure.

Section 6
Temporary employee has the meaning provided in Deschutes County HR-Personnel Rules Section 2.010.

Seasonal employee means an employee used for the purpose of meeting short-term work load needs of the
County. Seasonal employment shall not normally exceed 1,036 hours per fiscal year.


### ARTICLE 6 – DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE

Section 1
The principles of progressive discipline shall be used except when the nature of the problem requires more serious
action. An employee shall not be disciplined or discharged without just cause.

Section 2
Discipline shall consist of one of the following:

        1.          Documented Oral warning
        2.          Written reprimand
        3.          Suspension without pay
        4.          Demotion
        5.          Discharge

Section 3
Disciplinary action shall be accomplished in a manner which affords the employee the most protection possible
from embarrassment before other employees and the public.

Section 4
A union representative shall be allowed to be present, at the employee's request, at any meeting between the
employee and the supervisor (or investigator), in which the employee reasonably believes that discipline may
result from the meeting and/or investigation.

Section 5
When the County intends to take disciplinary action involving suspension without pay, demotion or discharge,
the County shall notify the employee and the Union President and Council Representative in writing of the
charges against the employee and the proposed disciplinary action and shall provide the employee with the
opportunity to respond to the charges at a hearing with the supervisor or person having authority to impose the
proposed disciplinary action.

Section 6
When the County imposes disciplinary action involving suspension without pay, demotion, or discharge, the
County shall provide the Union President and Council Representative a copy of the notice of imposed
discipline.

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                         Page |6
Section 7
When the County imposes disciplinary action of a documented oral warning, the employee has the option to
submit a written rebuttal within fifteen (15) days of issuance of the documented oral warning to the Human
Resources Department for the rebuttal to be attached to the documented oral warning in the employee’s
personnel file. No response or further action is required by the County as it relates to the employee’s rebuttal.


### ARTICLE 7 – GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

Section 1
The County will promptly consider and respond to employee grievances. The County and the Union prefer to
correct the causes of grievances informally and encourages both supervisors and employees to resolve problems
as they arise.

    A. A grievance is defined as an allegation that a specific provision of this Agreement has been violated and
       results in harm to an employee.

    B. A day is defined as a calendar day.

    C. An employee, at his or her discretion may elect to be represented by the Union at any step of the
       grievance procedure.

    D. Oral warnings are not subject to the grievance procedure.

    E. Performance evaluations can only be grieved through Step II of the grievance procedure.

    F. Written reprimands can only be grieved through Step III of the grievance procedure.

    G. In an effort to provide for resolution of disputes, the parties agree to the following procedures:

         Step I:       Any employee claiming a breach of any specific provision of this Agreement (“grievant”)
                       shall refer the matter, in writing, to their immediate supervisor outside the bargaining unit
                       within twenty-one (21) days from the occurrence of the alleged breach. The grievance
                       shall, at minimum, contain the following:

                       ●   Specific Article(s) and Section(s) of the Agreement alleged to have been violated.
                       ●   Alleged harm to the grievant.
                       ●   An explanation of the facts and issues related to the grievance.
                       ●   The specified remedy requested.
                       ●   The signature of the grievant or grievants.

                       The supervisor shall respond to the grievance in writing as quickly as possible, but no
                       later than twenty-one (21) days after the grievance is received by the supervisor.

         Step II.      If the grievance is not fully settled at Step I, it shall be reduced to writing, dated, signed
                       by the grievant or grievants, and be presented by the grievant or grievants or Union
                       representative to the Department Head within fifteen (15) calendar days after the
                       supervisor’s response is given, not including the date of the response. The Department
                       Head shall respond in writing to the grievance within fifteen (15) calendar days of the
                       date of the presentation of the written grievance, not including the date of presentation.
                       The Step II grievance shall be consistent with the Step I grievance unless the grievant(s)
AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                             Page |7
                       can demonstrate that new information or evidence pertinent to the grievance was not
                       available or discoverable at Step I.

          Step III.    If the grievance is not settled at Step II, the written grievance shall be presented by the
                       grievant or grievants, along with all pertinent correspondence, records and information, to
                       the County Administrator within fifteen (15) calendar days after the Department Head’s
                       response is given, not including the date of the response. The County Administrator may
                       meet with the grievant, grievants or Union Representative, the immediate supervisor, and
                       the Department Head. The County Administrator shall respond to the grievance in
                       writing within fifteen (15) calendar days after the date of presentation of the written
                       grievance, not including the date of presentation. The Step III grievance shall be
                       consistent with the Step I grievance unless the grievant(s) can demonstrate that new
                       information or evidence pertinent to the grievance was not available or discoverable at
                       previous steps.

        Step IV.       If the grievance of a suspension without pay, demotion, discharge, or loss of a property
                       right is not settled at Step III, the grievance shall be submitted in writing to the Board of
                       County Commissioners within fifteen (15) calendar days after the County
                       Administrator’s response is given, not including the date of the response. If the grievance
                       relates to the suspension without pay, demotion, discharge, or loss of property right of an
                       employee, the Board will hold a hearing if requested by the Union before issuing a
                       response. If a hearing is not requested by the Union, the Board, at the Board’s discretion,
                       may hold a hearing before issuing a response. If an employee has been suspended
                       without pay, demoted, discharged, or suffered a property right loss, a representative from
                       AFSCME shall be allowed to take part in the hearing before the Board, and allowed to
                       make comments and recommendations to the Board. The decision of the Board shall be
                       final and binding. However, either the Board or the Union may request advisory (non
                       binding) arbitration prior to the Board hearing. The Step IV grievance shall be consistent
                       with the Step I grievance unless the grievant(s) can demonstrate that new information or
                       evidence pertinent to the grievance was not available or discoverable at previous steps.

Section 2
If the grievance procedures established by this Section are not signed by the grievant or grievants and initiated
within the required time limits, the grievance shall be considered not to have existed.

Section 3
If the County fails to respond to any grievance within the time limit prescribed for such response, the grievance
shall automatically advance to the next step.

Section 4
The time limits for the initiation and completion of the steps of the grievance procedure may be extended by
mutual consent of the parties involved. Mutual consent should be indicated in writing, and signed by all parties
involved.

Section 5
No employee can be disciplined or discriminated against in any way because of the employee’s use of the
grievance procedure.


### ARTICLE 8 – SALARY ADMINISTRATION

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                           Page |8
Section 1
Pay for employees in the bargaining unit shall be in accordance with the Deschutes County Position and Grade
Step Listing.

Section 2
Deschutes County defines its pay period from the twenty-second day of the month through the twenty-first day
of the following month, with payment for that period to be made on the last business day of the month.

        A.           Deschutes County shall have discretion to change the pay period. By way of example only,
                     one option is the recent changes to the pay period to run from the twenty-second day of the
                     month through the twenty-first day of the following month, with payment for that period to be
                     made on the last business day of the month (9-10 days after expiration of the pay period). If
                     the last day of the month falls on a holiday or a weekend, payday for that pay period will be
                     the last business day preceding the holiday or weekend.

        B.           Deschutes County will provide employees with at least 90-days’ notice before changing the
                     pay period or changing pay to actual hours worked. County will also develop a transition plan
                     to assist employees with transitioning to a new pay period. The transition plan will include, at
                     a minimum: providing budgeting classes to employees and allowing employees to sell back
                     additional TML as necessary to make up for a shortened pay period during the transition.

Section 3
       A.           Employees shall be eligible for annual merit increases on their eligibility date provided that the
                    employee is not at the top step of the salary range of their classification.

        B.          Every employee shall receive a performance evaluation at least annually by the employee’s
                    eligibility date. The eligibility date is based on hire date as follows: If hired on the first of the
                    month through the 15th of the month – the performance evaluation will be completed within the
                    month of hire and will be retroactive to the 1st of the month. If hired on the 16th of the month
                    through the end of the month – the performance evaluation will be completed by the end of the
                    following month and will be effective retroactive to the first of the month. Annual merit
                    increases shall not be withheld unless an employee’s overall performance as stated on the
                    evaluation form is “unsatisfactory”. If the employee’s performance evaluation appraisal is not
                    completed by his/her eligibility date, he/she will receive his/her merit step increase.

        C.          Certificate/Licensure Duty Implementation
                    Job duties associated with obtaining a certificate or licensure shall not be assigned or required
                    until the corresponding pay increase is implemented. Employees shall not be expected to perform
                    duties requiring a specific certification or license unless and until they receive the compensation
                    designated for that level of qualification.

Section 4
Full-time employees who have worked continuously for the County shall receive additional pay per month for
each five years of continuous service as outlined below. Longevity pay will be pro-rated for part-time
employees based on their percentage of full-time employment.

For Fiscal Year 25/26, additional pay associated with length of service as described in this Section will be $97.50
per month for each five years of continuous service effective the first day of the month following signature by
AFSCME and the Board of County Commissioners. That monthly amount shall increase to the below monthly
rates in the following fiscal years:

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                                  Page |9
                                  $100.00           FY     26/27
                                  $102.50           FY     27/28
                                  $105.00           FY     28/29
                                  $107.50           FY     29/30

Section 5
The County, at the County’s sole discretion, may designate specific employees who are fluent in English and
another language (including, without limitation, sign language) to be translators/interpreters and to provide
services in a language other than English – additional compensation shall be granted to designated employees
for translation services as follows:

        1.          Regular FTE, Tier I: The employee will receive two hundred fifty dollars
                    ($250) per month
        2.          Regular FTE, Tier II: The employee will receive three hundred seventy-five dollars
                    ($375) per month
        3.          Regular FTE, Tier III: The employee will receive four hundred twenty-five dollars
                    ($425) per month
        4.          Regular ½ to ¾ time, Tier I: The employee will receive one hundred twenty-five dollars
                    ($125) per month
        5.          Regular ½ to ¾ time, Tier II: The employee will receive one hundred eighty-eight
                    dollars ($188) per month
        6.          Regular ½ to ¾ time, Tier III: The employee will receive two hundred thirteen dollars ($213) per
                    month

        Stipend Levels         Determining Assessment Skill                                Stipend
        Tier 1                 Speaking/Listening                                          $250/$125
        Tier 2                 Speaking/Listening + Interpretation and Translation         $375/$188
        Tier 3                 Speaking/Listening + Industry-standard certification        $425/$213

Such persons shall be proficient in the needed second language. It shall be at the sole discretion of the County
to select persons for bilingual compensation and to decrease or eliminate the compensation should the County
determine the need for translation no longer exists. Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the County from
using persons other than those designated for second language communication.

The County retains the right and total discretion to choose the positions to which the additional compensation is
granted, and to determine such test or other certification process that must be successfully completed for an
employee to qualify as bilingual for purposes of this Section.

Section 6
Shift differential pay of $1.00 per hour shall be paid to employees who work a full night shift (currently
scheduled as midnight to 8:00 a.m.). Shift differential pay is for eight (8) hours only. If eligible, the employee
will receive overtime pay based on regular rate of pay.

Employees working in Juvenile Community Justice will be eligible for shift differential pay for any hours
worked in a night shift as determined by department scheduling. Department scheduling and night shift hours
may be changed at management’s sole discretion; changes and impact on night scheduling will be
communicated to employees prior to implementation.


AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                            Page |10
Employees working in Health Services and assigned to work in the Stabilization Center will be eligible for shift
differential pay for any hours worked in a night shift as determined by department scheduling, at management’s
sole discretion. Department scheduling and night shift hours may be changed at management’s sole discretion;
changes and impact on night scheduling will be communicated to employees prior to implementation. As used
in this paragraph, the term “night shift” has its own meaning as determined by Health Services management in
its discretion, and is separate and distinct from the Juvenile Community Justice “night shift”.


### ARTICLE 9 – STANDBY AND CALL BACK TIME

Standby Pay: Is defined for the purpose of this Agreement as time an employee must be able to be contacted by
telephone, cellular phone, or pager. The employee must be able to respond within a time frame determined by
the Department Head. Compensation to employees will be two (2) hours per day at their current hourly rate.
Members working in positions classified as Exempt under the FLSA are not eligible to receive additional
compensation for standby pay as outlined in this section. Notwithstanding, Exempt employees who are assigned
to a standby program shall be provided standby pay.

Work from Home: Any work performed by telephone, or by telecommunications, from home as a result of a
standby call will be paid in accordance with the FLSA. If a member conducts work from home pursuant to this
section while being designated for Standby Pay, compensation for work conducted at home will be paid in
addition to Standby Pay as described. Members working in positions classified as Exempt under the FLSA are
not eligible to receive additional compensation for performing work from home as outlined in this section.

Call Back: Is defined for the purpose of this Agreement as that time an employee spends beyond their normal
work schedule as a result of being called back into the work place due to an emergency and/or special
circumstances. If a member is called back to conduct work pursuant to this section during a period in which they
are designated for Standby Pay, compensation for work conducted will be paid in addition to Standby Pay as
described. Members working in positions classified as Exempt under the FLSA are not eligible to
receive additional compensation for performing call back work as outlined in this section. When called back,
employees will receive compensation in accordance with the FLSA. In no case will a Non-Exempt employee
receive less than two (2) hours compensation for being called back to work.

The County will not provide home internet stipends to employees.



### ARTICLE 10 – HOURS OF WORK

Section 1
The workweek is defined as seven (7) days within a calendar week. The standard work week for Deschutes
County is Sunday through Saturday. The County may establish an alternate work week to address flexible work
schedules as referenced in Section 2(C). An alternate work week must be established in writing and submitted
to the Department Head for approval.
        A.     A regular work schedule is a work schedule with the same starting and stopping time on five (5)
Section 2      consecutive eight (8) hour shifts, with two (2) consecutive days off.

        B.          An alternate work schedule is a work schedule with the same starting and stopping times on four
                    (4) consecutive ten (10) hour shifts, and three (3) consecutive days off.



AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                           Page |11
        C.          A flexible work schedule is a work schedule which varies the number of hours worked on a daily
                    basis, but not necessarily each day, and may vary the number of days worked on a weekly basis,
                    but not necessarily each week, but which in no way conflicts with the Fair Labor Standards Act.

        D.          Work schedules shall be determined by the Program Manager, subject to approval by the
                    Department Head.

Section 3
Established regular work schedules will not be changed with less than ten (10) working days advance notice,
unless the operating needs of the County require it or an employee voluntarily agrees to the change and an
earlier implementation date.

Section 4
Each employee shall be granted an uninterrupted rest break of fifteen (15) minutes for each one-half (1/2) shift.
The rest breaks shall be scheduled as near the midpoint of each one-half (1/2) shift as possible.

Section 5
All full time employees shall be permitted a non-duty meal period during their work shifts. Non-duty meal
periods shall be no less than thirty (30) minutes and shall be scheduled in the middle of the work shift as
possible. In the event that business needs require an employee to remain on-duty during a meal period, this meal
period will be paid in accordance with applicable state and federal regulatory requirements.

Section 6
Nothing in this Article shall be construed as a guarantee of hours.


### ARTICLE 11 – OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY TIME

Section 1
All non-exempt employees shall be compensated at the rate of one and one-half (1 ½) times their regular rate of
pay for all hours worked in excess of 40 hours during the regularly scheduled workweek. Hours worked shall
include paid holidays, vacation, and compensatory hours which are authorized and scheduled in advance in
accordance with Departmental business needs. Sick leave hours will not count as hours worked in overtime
calculation. The specific application of this section shall be governed by Deschutes County Policy No. HR-04
Overtime Compensation and Compensatory Time. The County shall not modify the version of Policy No. HR-
04 in place when this contract takes effect without first providing the Union with at least 14 days prior written
notice and an opportunity to bargain the modification. Upon timely demand the County and the Union shall
bargain the modification. Failure by the Union to demand to bargain within such 14 days shall be deemed a
waiver of the opportunity to bargain the modification.

Section 2
By mutual agreement, a non-exempt employee may receive compensatory time off at the rate of one and one-
half (1 ½) hours for each overtime hour worked in accordance with Section 1. Compensatory time accrual shall
not exceed 80 hours.

Section 3
Overtime shall be approved in advance by an employee’s supervisor. Exceptions for documented emergencies
will be made.

Section 4

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                           Page |12
Subject to operational needs, the County shall attempt to offer overtime opportunities as equally as possible
among qualified employees in the department where overtime work is needed.

Section 5
When possible and within budget constraints, the Department Head will honor the non-exempt employee’s
request regarding the method of compensation, either compensatory time off, or overtime pay.


### ARTICLE 12 – WORKING-OUT-OF-CLASS AND LEAD PAY

Section 1
The County agrees to compensate an employee assigned in writing to temporarily assume the major
distinguishing duties of a position in a higher classification, where such an assignment is for ten (10)
consecutive work days or more at a compensation rate of 5%, 7.5%, or 10% differential, or at any step of the
higher salary range which provides at least a 5% pay increase to be determined by the Department Head based
upon the assigned duties and approved in advance by the County Administrator. The additional compensation
shall be retroactive to the first day of the assignment.

Section 2
When an employee is directed and authorized in writing by the Department Head/supervisor to perform lead
work functions defined as follows:

        A lead worker is an employee delegated limited lead and/or coordination of duties by their Department
        Head. Limited duties include distribution of work assignments, maintaining a balanced workload
        among a group of employees, reviewing completed work and maintenance of records of work.

They will receive a 2.5%, 5%, 7.5%, or 10% differential, to be determined by the Department Head for all hours
worked while performing those duties. Lead pay must be approved in advance by the County Administrator.

Section 3
If an employee believes that they are working significantly outside their classification, they may request that
their job be reviewed for a reclassification. Requests for reclassification review must be made through the
employee’s Department Head. In the event a reclassification is approved by the County Administrator (per
Deschutes County HR-Personnel Rules 1.040, Section C), it will be retroactive to the 1st of the month following
the day the employee submitted a completed Job Description Questionnaire (available through HR) to their
supervisor initiating the request.


### ARTICLE 13 – VACANCIES

Section 1
Normally, all job vacancies that the County intends to fill shall be posted in the Human Resources Department
and over the County Intranet for a minimum of seven (7) calendar days. In the event of an unanticipated
business need, vacancies may be posted for fewer than seven (7) calendar days. Whenever possible, job
announcements for such vacancies shall be sent to each department for posting for no less than ten (10) days.

Section 2
The decision to hire, transfer, assign and promote employees shall be based on skill, ability, qualifications,
recency of experience, training, length of service and work performance record. In recognition of seniority, the
senior employee shall have preference if all the foregoing factors are equal in the sole judgment of the County.

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                        Page |13
Section 3
Department employees who apply for a position opening within their department shall be entitled to an
interview provided they meet the minimum job qualifications as determined by the Department Head, and have
an overall rating of at least “Effective – Meets Standards” on the employee’s most recent performance
evaluation.

Section 4
County employees who apply for a position and do not receive it, shall be given the reason for their non-
selection should the employee request a reason.


### ARTICLE 14 – ASSIGNMENT OF PERSONNEL

Section 1
The decision to hire, transfer, assign, promote and layoff employees shall be based on skill, ability,
qualifications, recency of experience, training, length of service and work record. In recognition of length of
service, the senior employee shall have preference if all the foregoing factors are equal in the sole judgment of
the County. The County shall make every effort to transfer laid off employees into any vacant position for
which they are qualified. Employees shall be notified of layoff at least thirty days in advance of lay off.

Section 2
Employees shall be eligible for recall for a period of eighteen (18) months. Employees shall be notified of recall
in writing, and shall have ten (10) calendar days in which to respond. The County will make every effort to
place laid off employees in any other position for which they are qualified.


Section 3
Employees transferred or promoted out of the bargaining unit shall not accumulate seniority while out of the
bargaining unit. Any such employee subsequently returned into a bargaining unit position, in the same department,
shall be entitled to have their frozen seniority restored, which was earned in the bargaining unit.

Section 4
There are times when an employee transfers to a different position in another department, but remains in the same
classification. In these cases, efforts will be made to transfer the employee as soon as possible, while taking into
account the operational needs of both departments. The transfer timelines will be agreed upon by supervisors of
both affected departments. If the supervisors cannot agree on a timeline, it will be elevated to the department
heads of the affected departments to finalize.


### ARTICLE 15 – PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS

Section 1
Each employee shall receive a performance evaluation prepared by his/her immediate supervisor or Department
Head at least annually according to the time lines in Article 8, Section 3(B) of this Agreement. The rater shall
discuss the performance evaluation with the employee. The employee shall have the opportunity to provide
his/her comments to be attached to the performance evaluation. The employee shall sign the performance
evaluation and that signature shall only indicate that the employee has read the performance evaluation. A copy
of the performance evaluation shall be provided to the employee at the time of the evaluation.

Section 2

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                           Page |14
Classification/Job Description specifications shall be provided to the employee upon hiring and be made
available to the employee for review. If classification/job descriptions are changed employees will be made
aware of the change and the revised description will be made available to the employee for review.


### ARTICLE 16 – LONGEVITY AND LENGTH OF SERVICE

Section 1
Length of service is determined by the length of an employee’s continuous full-time or part-time service with a
County Department.

Section 2
Longevity is determined by an employee’s continuous full-time or part time service as a County employee.

Section 3
For employees working less than full time, longevity pay shall be pro-rated by the number of hours for which
the employee was hired to work.

Section 4
Accrued length of service and/or longevity shall terminate in the event of the following:

        1.          Voluntary termination for greater than three (3) months except under special circumstances to be
                    determined by the County.
        2.          Discharge for cause.
        3.          A lay-off period of more than eighteen (18) months.
        4.          Failure to report to work at the termination of a leave of absence.
        5.          Acceptance of employment without permission while on leave of absence.
        6.          Retirement.

Section 5
Time off during layoff period shall not count toward length of service or longevity accrual.


### ARTICLE 17 – HOLIDAYS

Section 1
The following shall be recognized as paid holidays:

                    New Year’s Day                                     Labor Day
                    President’s Day                                    Veteran’s Day
                    Martin Luther King’s Day                           Thanksgiving Day
                    Memorial Day                                       Christmas Day
                    Juneteenth                                         One (1) Floating Holiday
                    Independence Day

Whenever a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday shall be considered a holiday. If a holiday falls on
Saturday, the preceding Friday shall be a holiday. If an employee works on the actual holiday that falls on a
Saturday or Sunday, that day would be the employee’s holiday and they will be paid in accordance with Article
17, Section 3 for that day only. In no event shall an employee receive holiday pay for both the observed and
actual holiday. Holidays that occur during paid vacation or sick leave shall not be charged against vacation or

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                           Page |15
sick leave. In order to qualify for holiday pay, employees must work their entire, normal workdays before and
after the holiday or be on authorized leave of absence with pay.

Section 2
Full time employees shall be compensated at the straight time rate of eight (8) hours for each recognized
holiday. Employees working an alternative schedule of 9 or 10 hours have the choice to: a) revert to a 5/8
schedule during the week in which the holiday occurs, or; b) use accrued time management leave, comp time,
or other accrued paid time off to equal 40 hours for the week. The choice of reverting to a 5/8 schedule or using
accrued leave shall be approved in advance by the supervisor or Department Head.

All part time employees (half time or more) shall be compensated at the straight time rate on a prorated basis
(based on an 8-hour work day) for each recognized holiday.

Section 3
Work performed by non-exempt employees on holidays which fall within the regular work schedule shall be
considered as overtime work, and the employees who work on such holidays will be granted time off or
compensation pay on the basis of time-and-one-half for the hours worked in addition to their regular holiday
pay.

Section 4
Full and part time employees who have recognized holidays falling on their days off will be credited with
straight time off for these holidays in a “holiday leave bank”, or have the holiday paid as additional hours if
mutually agreed on between the employee and Department Head. Holiday leave bank accounts shall not exceed
60 hours.

Section 5
The floating holidays can be used any time during the calendar year by mutual consent between the employee
and the supervisor or Department Head. New employees shall be employed six (6) months before they are
eligible for the floating holiday. Floating holidays cannot be carried over from year to year. Employees will not
receive pay at the time of termination of employment for any unused floating holiday.


### ARTICLE 18 – TIME MANAGEMENT

The specific application of this section will be governed by the Time Management Program. (Appendix A of
this Agreement).

Section 1
Regular full-time and regular part-time employees can use their accrued leave as soon as it is accrued after
receiving authorization from their Department Head. Leave accrual for regular part-time personnel is computed
on a pro-rated basis based on authorized FTE. Time Management Leave offered to full and part-time regular
employees as articulated in this article and Appendix A – Time Management AFSCME represent substantially
equivalent paid sick time benefits in compliance with the Oregon Paid Sick Time Law (“OPST”) as defined by
ORS 653.601 through 653.661. Rules for employee accrual and use of paid time under OPST will be consistent
with Deschutes County Administrative Policy HR-18 - Oregon Paid Sick Time.

Section 2
Leave accrues while an employee is on leave with pay, but not while on leave without pay. No employee can
be granted leave without pay until after all forms of accrued leave have been exhausted.

Section 3
AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                         Page |16
When an employee is transferred or appointed to another department, all of his/her leave will be assumed by the
new department.

Section 4
An employee who terminates his/her employment is entitled to cash compensation in lieu of leave. In case of
death, compensation for accrued leave will be paid in accordance with state law.

Section 5
Department Heads shall establish staffing schedules to provide for requested leave for employees, and
employees are to take leave at the time scheduled. A record of time taken shall be kept on file in the
department. Such schedules may be amended to meet work emergencies. In establishing regular schedules,
Department Heads shall give due consideration to the desires of individual employees while weighing the work
requirements of the department. Whenever possible, longevity shall prevail where there is a conflict between
two or more employees wanting the same time off for vacation purposes.

Section 6
At least once each year, all regular employees must be allowed to take five (5) days consecutively if accrued.


### ARTICLE 19 – SICK LEAVE

Section 1
When an employee is physically unable to perform duties because of illness or injury, the employee shall notify
his/her immediate supervisor as soon as possible prior to the beginning of his/her shift. At the request of the
immediate supervisor or other superior, the employee will obtain certification from an attending physician,
documenting the nature and period of illness.

Section 2
This Section applies only to those employees who have time in the sick leave bank. Sick leave bank may be
used only after the employee has been absent for an equivalent of at least three full days within the prior 30-day
period for qualifying sick leave. Sick leave bank hours shall be used only for the following:

              1.    Illness or injury.
              2.    Medical or dental care.
              3.    Exposure to contagious disease under circumstances by which the health of fellow employees
                    or the public would be endangered.
              4.    FMLA/OFLA/PLO qualifying leave in accordance with State and Federal Family Medical
                    Leave laws.
              5.    Death of a family member which qualifies for OFLA Bereavement Leave.

Section 3
Time Management Leave offered to full and part-time regular employees as articulated in Article 18 – Time
Management and Appendix A – Time Management AFSCME represent substantially equivalent paid sick time
benefits in compliance with the Oregon Paid Sick Time Law (OPST) as defined by ORS 653.601 through
653.661. Rules for employee accrual and use of paid time under OPST will be consistent with Deschutes
County Administrative Policy HR-18 - Oregon Paid Sick Time.

Section 4
Upon written application for an employee, leave without pay may be granted by the Department Head subject to
final authorization by the County Administrator (per HR-Personnel Rules Section 10.030) for a reasonable

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                          Page |17
period of disability after earned leave and FMLA/OFLA leave have been exhausted. In no instance shall such
leave without pay exceed six months.

Section 5
The County will allow sick bank rollover in accordance with the rules established by PERS.

Section 6

    A. Bereavement Leave Allocation

            1. Employees shall be entitled to sixteen (16) hours of bereavement leave per occurrence to grieve
               and address matters related to the death of an immediate family member.
            2. “Immediate family member” is defined as spouse, registered domestic partner (as defined by
               Oregon law), parent (to include step), child (to include step), brother (to include step), sister, (to
               include step), mother-in-law, father-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, and any member of the
               employee’s immediate household.
            3. The initial sixteen (16) hours of bereavement leave shall not require the use of accrued time off.
               Any additional time off beyond sixteen (16) hours may be charged to accrued time off.


### ARTICLE 20 – LEAVES OF ABSENCE

Section 1
Full-time and part-time employees shall be granted leave with full pay, computed on the basis of their normal
number of working hours per day, at the employee’s regular straight-time hourly rate, any time they are
required by summons or subpoenas to report for jury duty or jury service. An eligible employee shall endorse
any fee, excluding mileage, to the County as a condition to receipt of jury pay.

Section 2
Leave credit shall continue to accrue to those employees who are on leave with pay. For the accumulation of
leave credit and the granting of leave, computation shall be made in hourly or partial hour units. Deductions
shall not be made from leave accumulations for regularly assigned days off, or County holidays occurring
during a period of leave with pay if the employee returns to work on the first day thereafter or has been granted
additional leave.


Section 3
Employees shall be entitled to family medical and parental leave in accordance with Federal and Oregon law.


Section 4
An employee who has served with the County for at least six months and who is a member of the National
Guard or the reserve of any branch of the U.S. Military is entitled to military leave not to exceed fifteen (15)
work days per Federal fiscal year. Such leave will be granted without loss of time, pay or other leave and
without impairment of merit rating or other rights or benefits. Military leave with pay may be granted to
personnel with bona fide military orders and shall not be paid if the employee does not return to his/her position
immediately following the end of the approved duty period. Department Heads are required to report
employees on leave on the payroll time and leave worksheets. Copies of military orders shall be placed in the
employee’s personnel file. Military leave without pay will be granted to employees for performance of military
service, pursuant to bona fide military orders, in accordance with the provisions of Oregon State law and the
provisions of the Uniformed Service Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994, as amended.
AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                             Page |18
Employees may, but are not required to, use accrued and unused time management leave for any period of
military service which is unpaid by the County.

Section 5
After completing one year of continuous service, a regular full-time employee, upon written request may be
granted a leave of absence without pay by the County Administrator (with departmental approval) for the
purpose of upgrading his/her professional ability through enrollment in educational courses at an accredited
school. The period of such leave of absence may not exceed one year, but may be renewed or extended upon
request of the employee and approved by the County Administrator. After the expiration of such educational
leave of absence, the employee shall normally be returned to his/her same job classification and same salary
step.

Section 6
Employees may be granted time off with pay for educational purposes to attend conferences, seminars, briefing
sessions, training programs and other programs of a similar nature required or approved by the employee’s
Department Head. Subject to the supervisor’s discretion and with prior supervisory approval, and so long as
doing so does not negatively impact the quality, timing, or amount of work expected of the employee, schedules
or customary work hours of exempt employees may be adjusted to attend work related training or educational
courses or events.

Section 7
Leave with pay shall be granted for actual work time missed for an appearance on the County’s behalf,
connected with his/her official duties before a court, legislative committee, judicial or quasi-judicial body as a
witness if required by the County. Employees shall return to the County any compensation, excluding mileage,
received as a result of such duty.

Section 8
Special leave is a provision created to accommodate natural disasters and life threatening situations. If there is
a building emergency, a bomb threat or a natural disaster, special leave may be granted to County employees by
Board decree. Such leave does not affect an employee’s earned leave.

Section 9
An employee’s Department Head may grant a leave of absence without pay not to exceed thirty calendar days.
Leave of absence without pay for periods in excess of thirty days must be approved by the County
Administrator.

Section 10
Leaves of absences without pay may not be granted until all accrued leave has been exhausted.


### ARTICLE 21 – HEALTH AND WELFARE

Section 1
Health Insurance is to include the following:
       ●      Medical Insurance
       ●      Vision Insurance
       ●      Dental Insurance
       ●      Prescription Drug Insurance
       ●      Orthodontic Insurance

Section 2
AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                          Page |19
Other insurance is to include the following:
       ●      Employee life insurance
       ●      Dependent life insurance
       ●      Long-term disability insurance
       ●      Unemployment insurance
       ●      Retirement health insurance

Section 3
In addition to health insurance and other insurance, the County will make available to AFSCME represented
employees a qualified IRS 125 plan.

Section 4
For employees hired prior to August 1, 2025, the County will provide insurance benefits at the same level and
under the same conditions as a regular full-time employee, to retired County employees collecting PERS who
have worked for the County for thirty (30) years or more on a full-time basis. This benefit will be provided
until the employee reaches the age of sixty-five (65), or until eligible for Medicare. Employees hired after
August 1, 2025 are not eligible for this benefit.

The term “full-time basis” as used in this Section 4, shall be interpreted more broadly as to include any month
when an AFSCME represented employee of the County in a non-regular status worked an equivalent or greater
number of hours when compared to regular full-time employees. Specifically, if the number of hours worked for
the County in a given month by a non-regular status AFSCME represented employee equaled or exceeded the
number of hours considered by the County at the time to constitute full-time employment, then that month shall
count towards the 30 years (or 360 months) required to then receive County-provided insurance benefits at
retirement. If the number of hours worked for the County in a given month by a non-regular status AFSCME
represented employee were less than the number of hours considered by the County at the time to constitute
full-time employment, then that month shall not count towards the 30 years nor shall that month be pro-rated.

For employees hired prior to August 1, 2025, employees who retire from the County with more than fifteen (15)
years and less than thirty (30) years of full-time service are eligible to receive a County contribution towards
their monthly insurance premiums until age sixty-five (65) or until eligible for Medicare, in accordance with a
schedule recommended by the EBAC and approved by the Board of County Commissioners. The schedule of
retiree premiums and County contributions shall be posted on the Human Resources Department Intranet site.
Employees hired after August 1, 2025 are not eligible for this benefit.

Section 5
Full-time and part-time (half-time or more) employees will be eligible for benefits in accordance with this
contract. Regular, part-time employees (half-time or more) will be required to pay pro-rated premium
contributions based on their percentage of hours worked if they elect the Standard plan. If a part-time employee
elects the High-Deductible plan, then the premium contribution will be the same as a full-time employee on the
Standard plan.

Section 6
Workers’ Compensation will be paid at the rate mandated by Oregon State Law. Time loss payments begin
three (3) calendar days after the employee leaves work or loses wages as a result of a compensable injury.

In case of extreme emergency, the County Administrator may authorize the use of the employee’s accrued
leave, which shall be the difference between the employee’s regular net monthly salary and the amount of
Workers’ Compensation payment. When an employee receives approval under this section, pro-rated charges
will be made against the employee’s accrued leave. In no case shall the combined payment exceed the
employee’s net regular monthly salary rate. In no case will supplemental payments be allowed after an
AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                        Page |20
employee becomes eligible for long-term disability benefits. Accrued leave shall not include leave acquired by
leave donation.

“Extreme emergency” is defined as:
       ●     Inability to return to work in any capacity for at least four working weeks.
       ●     Demonstrated increase in basic living expenses as a direct result of the injury.
       ●     Extreme hardship, determined by the County Administrator.

Section 7
The Employee Benefits Advisory Committee including four (4) AFSCME representatives (see Appendix B)
shall meet at least eight (8) times per year for the purpose of reviewing program performance and advising the
Board of Commissioners on desired changes in Insurance Benefits. The committee shall meet and review any
proposed changes to the Insurance Benefits Plan before a change is made.

Health benefits and other insurance will be provided to AFSCME represented employees under the same
conditions and restrictions as provided to all other County employees. Coverage may be adjusted or modified
by the County after soliciting a recommendation from the County Employee Benefits Advisory Committee.

Section 8
A health benefits plan document shall be adopted annually by the County following a review by the Employee
Benefits Advisory Committee. The per FTE cost of providing the health benefits called for in this plan shall be
determined by an actuarial valuation for both a composite rate and a tiered system. The County shall annually,
as part of the budget adoption process, establish an employee premium contribution. Monthly employee health
insurance premium contributions shall be no greater than nine point five percent (9.5%) of the per FTE cost as
calculated by the composite rate. The County reserves the right to establish a tiered system for premium
contributions under which different contribution rates may be established for a single employee, employee and
spouse/same sex domestic partner, employee and child(ren), or full family benefits. If the County establishes a
tiered system for premium contributions, the monthly employee health insurance premium contributions shall
be no greater than nine point five percent (9.5%) of the respective tier cost for the relevant enrollment tier.


### ARTICLE 22 – RETIREMENT

The County shall be a participant in the Public Employees Retirement System (PERS)/Oregon Public Service
Retirement Plan (OPSRP) or its equivalent.

After the employee has completed his/her six full months’ employment period and holds a position requiring
that the employee work in excess of 600 hours per year, the County shall make contributions to PERS/OPSRP
in accordance with levels established for the employee’s position. The employees will contribute to
PERS/OPSRP in accordance with the state law.

In the event that state law provides for other alternatives, members of AFSCME will be afforded the same
options available to non-represented employees.

The County will take appropriate action to have the employee contribution defined as pre-tax in accordance
with tax code regulations.

The County will continue to provide a Deferred Compensation plan in compliance with IRC 45. The plan will
be available to all AFSCME bargaining unit employees.


AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                       Page |21
### ARTICLE 23 – TRAVEL EXPENSES

Reasonable and necessary travel, meal and miscellaneous expense reimbursement will be approved for payment
when an employee incurs expenses while acting within the scope of employment with Deschutes County in
accordance with Deschutes County Finance Policy No. F-01, or subsequently adopted travel and expense
policy. Compensation while traveling on County business shall be subject to Deschutes County Policy No. HR-
15. The County shall not modify the versions of Policies No. F-01 and HR-15 in place when this Agreement
takes effect without first providing the Union with at least 14 days prior written notice and an opportunity to
bargain the modification. Upon timely demand the County and the Union shall bargain the modification. Failure
by the Union to demand to bargain within such 14 days shall be deemed a waiver of the opportunity to bargain
the modification.

Notification of Currently Assigned Work Location upon Hire
Upon hiring, employees shall be informed in writing of their currently assigned work location at time of hire.
An employee’s work location can change after time of hire at the sole discretion of the County based on
operational needs.


### ARTICLE 24 - SAFETY

Section 1
The County and the Union agree to cooperate in the continuing objective to eliminate accidents and health
hazards.

Section 2
All employees are encouraged and expected to inform their supervisor of safety concerns in the work place
including health and safety issues. It is clearly understood that the County shall take no reprisals against
employees for reporting issues to their supervisor or the risk manager.

Section 3
The County will continue a comprehensive risk management program including approved OSHA safety
committees and will review issues reported in Section 2 above. The Union shall be entitled to have a
representative on each committee. Minutes from safety committee meetings shall be posted in affected areas.


### ARTICLE 25 - PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

Section 1
The County shall pay for the professional registration, certification or licensure of all full-time professional staff
required to maintain their registration, certification or licensure as a condition of employment and as required
by state law. This includes but is not limited to: Public Health Nurses, Environmental Health Specialists,
Property Appraisers, Registered Health Information Technicians, Mental Health Clinicians, Building
Inspectors, and Notaries Public.

Section 2
In the event an employee utilizes their license for any private gain and/or any non-county services they shall
reimburse the county the full amount expended on their behalf.


### ARTICLE 26 – RIGHT TO CONTRACT

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                             Page |22
The County expressly reserves the right to contract any and all County work and services to non-County
employees. The County agrees to fulfill its obligations under the Public Employee Collective Bargaining Act
(PECBA) before contracting out any work. The County agrees that it will not contract out services with the
purpose to end the Union’s representation status.


### ARTICLE 27 - SEPARABILITY

In the event that any provision of this Agreement shall at any time be declared invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction or through government regulations or decree, such decision shall not invalidate the entire
Agreement, it being the express intention of the parties hereto that all other provisions not declared invalid shall
remain in full force and effect.


### ARTICLE 28 - SCOPE OF AGREEMENT

Section 1
The Agreement expressed herein in writing constitutes the entire Agreement between the parties. This
Agreement shall supersede all previous oral and written Agreements between the County and the employees. It
is agreed that the relations between the parties shall be governed by the terms of this Agreement only, no prior
agreements, understandings, past practices, existing conditions, prior benefits, oral or written, shall be
controlling or in any way affect the relations between the Parties, or the wages, hours and working conditions
unless and until such Agreement, understandings, past practices, existing conditions and prior agreements shall
be reduced to writing and duly executed by both parties.

Section 2
In the event the County intends to make a unilateral change in a mandatory subject of bargaining as defined by
ORS 243, the County agrees to notify the Union and subsequently fulfill its obligation under PECBA prior to
making said change.


### ARTICLE 29 - TERM OF THE AGREEMENT

This Agreement shall be effective July 1, 2025, and shall remain in full force and effect through June 30, 2030.

Reopener Clause - Article 30 Reopener in Third Year of Contract

The parties agree to reopen Article 30 for bargaining during the third year of this Agreement, specifically
between January 1 and June 30, 2028. Either party may initiate the reopener by providing written notice to the
other party no later than February 1, 2028. Upon such notice, the parties agree to meet within 30 days to
commence good faith negotiations over the provisions of Article 30.

This reopener shall be limited to the subject matter contained within Article 30, and shall not extend to other
articles of the Agreement unless mutually agreed upon by the parties in writing.

Any agreements reached as a result of this reopener shall be reduced to writing and incorporated as an
addendum to the current collective bargaining agreement.


### ARTICLE 30 - WAGES

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                           Page |23
Effective July 1 of each year of the contract, the wage schedule shall be adjusted to reflect a Cost of Living
Adjustment (COLA) based on the average 12-month CPI percentage. The COLA shall be calculated using the
Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers (CPI-U), West Region, Size Class B/C cities, by averaging the
12-month percentage changes for the period from January of the preceding year through December.

For the contract period of July 1, 2025, through June 30, 2030, the wage schedule adjustments shall be based on
the following CPI calculations, subject to a minimum increase of 1% and a maximum increase of 4%:

    ● July 1, 2025: Based on the average 12-month percentage changes from January 2024 to December 2024.
    ● July 1, 2026: Based on the average 12-month percentage changes from January 2025 to December 2025.
    ● July 1, 2027: Based on the average 12-month percentage changes from January 2026 to December 2026.
    ● July 1, 2028: Based on the average 12-month percentage changes from January 2027 to December 2027.
    ● July 1, 2029: Based on the average 12-month percentage changes from January 2028 to December 2028.

The COLA adjustment shall not be less than 1% nor exceed 4% in any given contract year. The adjustment shall
be applied annually on July 1 of each contract year.

### ARTICLE 31 – GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section 1. Labor-Management Meetings

    A. Labor-Management meetings shall be held quarterly, if requested by AFSCME.
    B. During these meetings, Labor and Management will collaborate to address concerns and identify
       potential solutions to workplace issues.

    C. The Union shall inform Management of concerns raised by its members to facilitate discussions and
       collaborate on potential workplace improvements. This process is intended to support employee
       retention and enhance working conditions within Deschutes County.

    D. These meetings shall be for informational purposes only and shall not constitute a re-opening of any
       provision of this Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) or any other mandatory subject of bargaining
       absent mutual written agreement between the parties.

Section 2. Remote Work Requests

Any requests for remote work will be considered in accordance with Deschutes County Human Resources
Policy HR-6.



                                               APPENDIX “A”



SUBJECT: TIME MANAGEMENT - AFSCME



AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                       Page |24
I.      PURPOSE

        It is the purpose of the Deschutes County Time Management Program to provide employees with a
        leave-with-pay program that is easily understood, responsive to individual needs, and easy to administer.
        This program is also intended to eliminate any abuse of sick leave while rewarding employees for
        faithful attendance and productivity.

II.     SCOPE

        This program covers all AFSCME represented employees. Time Management Leave shall accrue in lieu
        of the following:

        ● Sick leave (non occupational illness or injury leave)Vacation leave
        ● Family emergency
        ● Compensatory time (except as provided in Article 11 and Deschutes County General Policy No.
          HR-4)
        ● Paid sick time as defined by the Oregon Paid Sick Time Law (“OPST”) (Time Management Leave
          offered to full and part-time regular employees as articulated in Article 18 Time Management and
          this appendix represent substantially equivalent paid sick time benefits in compliance with OPST as
          defined by ORS 653.601 through 653.661. Rules for employee accrual and use of paid time under
          OPST will be consistent with Deschutes County Administrative Policy HR-2 Family and Medical
          Leave Policy)


        Nonexempt employees who are eligible for 1.5 compensatory time or overtime will still receive such
        under this program in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act. Exempt employees are eligible for
        flex time under the same terms and conditions applied to non-represented employees in accordance with
        County Policy HR-7 subject to supervisor or Department Head approval.

III.    LEAVE-WITH-PAY PROVISIONS

                    A.   All employees entering the Time Management Program will be credited with their
                         existing vacation time balance.

                         Nonexempt employees will earn leave, based on full-time service, in accordance with the
                         following schedule:

                         Months of                 Hours of                 Earned Leave
                         Service                    Leave                   Accumulation

                         0 – 48 months            168 hours                 14 hrs/month
                         49 – 108 months          192 hours                 16 hrs/month
                         109 – 168 months         216 hours                 18 hrs/month
                         169 – 228 months         240 hours                 20 hrs/month
                         229 – 288 months         264 hours                 22 hrs/month
                         289+ months              288 hours                 24 hrs/month

                         Exempt employees will earn leave, based on full-time service, in accordance with the
                         following schedule:

                         Months of                 Hours of                 Earned Leave
AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                         Page |25
                         Service                      Leave                    Accumulation

                         0 – 48 months              216 hours                  18 hrs/month
                         49 – 108 months            240 hours                  20 hrs/month
                         109 – 168 months           264 hours                  22 hrs/month
                         169 – 228 months           288 hours                  24 hrs/month
                         229+ months                312 hours                  26 hrs/month

                    B.   For regular part-time employees, all reference to time accrual or usage in the Time
                         Management Program shall be prorated according to the percentage of full-time
                         equivalency authorized for the position.

                    C.   During the course of the year, absence from work for any reason other than on-the-job
                         illness or injury covered by Workers Compensation or paid holiday shall be charged
                         against “earned leave” except as provided in Section IV.B. of this policy. Earned leave
                         shall accrue whenever an employee is on paid status with the County. Employees do not
                         accrue earned leave when on leave without pay.

                    D.   An employee may accumulate earned leave, including the previous vacation balance, if
                         any, to a maximum of twice the annual time management accumulation. During the July
                         payroll period of each year, any employee credited with accrued time management leave
                         greater than twice the annual accumulation shall have the amount above the maximum
                         accumulation transferred to their sick leave bank account. If the employee does not have
                         a sick-bank account, an account will be established for the employee. An employee who
                         has acquired the maximum allowable accumulation of time management leave may
                         continue to accumulate earned leave for the balance of the following year in which the
                         maximum accrual was reached, provided that the employee take sufficient earned leave
                         to reduce the accumulation to the maximum allowable prior to the following July payroll
                         period or the excess will be transferred to his/her sick-bank account.

                    E.   Upon an employee’s termination, all of the employee’s earned time management leave
                         (including vacation rollover, if any) shall be paid to the employee at the current rate of
                         pay.

                    F.   In the event of an employee’s death, all earned leave shall be paid according to state law.

                    G.   During the first five years of employment, employees shall be required to take a
                         minimum of one (1) week of earned time management leave per year. Thereafter,
                         employees shall be required to take a minimum of two (2) weeks of earned time
                         management leave per year.

                    H.   Employees shall, whenever possible, request time off in advance. Use of such leave must
                         be scheduled between the employee and their supervisor or designee. When an employee
                         is sick or an emergency requires their presence elsewhere, the employee must notify the
                         supervisor as soon as possible prior to their scheduled shift.

                    I.   In the prior November of each calendar year and subject to Department Head approval
                         and budgetary restrictions, an employee may make an irrevocable election to sell-back up
                         to sixty (60) hours of earned Time Management Leave (TML) for the following calendar
                         year.

AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                             Page |26
                           To be eligible, an employee must:
                         ● Have been employed continuously for at least one year.
                         ● Maintain at least one year's worth of accrued TML after cash out.
                         ● Have used the minimum TML specified in Section G.


                            TML for sell-back will be deducted from TML accrued in the calendar year following
                            the employee’s irrevocable election. The employee will receive payment for their election
                            in the following year on their June paycheck at their base rate of pay. If the employee has
                            insufficient TML hours to cover their election, the remaining hours will be paid on their
                            December paycheck. This may cause an employee’s TML balance to drop below the
                            required minimum.

                    J.      Each calendar year during the last three years prior to retirement, employees may make
                            an irrevocable election to sell up to an additional 100 hours of accrued leave which will
                            be earned in the following calendar year at the employee’s base rate of pay. Extensions of
                            an employee’s scheduled retirement date notwithstanding, no employee will be entitled to
                            this option in more than three years. This irrevocable election will occur in November of
                            each calendar year. On the pay day for the first pay period in June of the following year,
                            the employee will receive payment for the amount of leave the employee irrevocably
                            elected to sell back in the prior year. If the employee does not have sufficient leave to
                            cover their election in June, the remaining hours will be automatically converted in
                            December.

IV.     PRIOR SICK LEAVE ACCUMULATION

        An employee’s existing sick leave accrual at the time of entering the Time Management Program will be
        preserved in a separate sick leave bank account. No additional sick leave will be earned. Existing sick
        leave will be treated in the following manner:

                    A.      No compensation for accrued sick leave bank shall be provided for any employee for any
                            reason, except that one-half of the employee’s accrued sick leave bank shall be paid to
                            the employee or their beneficiary upon death or permanent total disability.

                    B.      Employees will be allowed to convert up to 100 hours of existing sick leave to time
                            management leave on a two-for-one basis. (100 hours of sick leave will convert to 50
                            hours of time management leave).

                    C.      Employees with an existing sick leave bank as of the date this contract is signed shall
                            have those hours moved to a “sick leave vault.” One–half of the employee’s sick leave
                            vault balance will be paid to the employee upon termination of employment or, upon
                            death of the employee (in accordance with state law). No additional hours will be
                            transferred to the sick leave vault.

                    D.      Use of Accrued Leave Due to Illness or Injury. Unless otherwise required by law, the
                            sick leave bank and sick leave vault may only be used by the employee after the
                            employee has been absent from work for the equivalent of three entire workdays due to
                            the same illness or injury. Time off during the first three (3) days will be deducted from
                            the employee’s accrued and unused time management leave or, if the employee does not
                            have sufficient time management leave, will be deducted from accrued compensatory
                            time or any other paid leave time or be identified as leave without pay.
AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                              Page |27
                    E.   Definitions:

                         1. “Sick Leave Bank” is leave available for use when an employee is sick and absent
                            from work for the equivalent of three (3) entire work days due to an illness or injury.
                            Time Management Leave accrued above the annual maximum and not sold back is
                            transferred to the sick leave bank. Sick leave bank is not paid out except as otherwise
                            provided in subsection A of this Section IV.

“Sick Leave Vault” is leave available for use when an employee is sick and absent from work for the equivalent
of three (3) entire work days due to an illness or injury. One-half of the sick leave vault hours will be paid to the
employee upon termination of employment.




AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                            Page |28
                                                  APPENDIX “B”

DESCHUTES COUNTY GENERAL POLICY NO. GA-6


SUBJECT:            Duties and Responsibilities of the Employee Benefits Advisory Committee


DISCUSSION: It is the goal of the Board of County Commissioners to provide a quality Health and Welfare
Insurance Benefit Program on a consistent basis to all regular County employees. In providing these benefits it
is also the responsibility of the Board to provide such benefits within established budgetary constraints.

POLICY:

In order to assist the Board in providing a consistent level of Health and Welfare benefits to all regular County
employees, the Board of County Commissioners will appoint an Employee Benefits Advisory Committee
(EBAC).

The primary responsibility of the EBAC will be to meet with Human Resources staff, the agent of record, and
insurance representatives, in order to review/evaluate all possible options with regard to employee benefits.
The EBAC will make recommendations to the Board of County Commissioners regarding Health and Welfare
benefit levels.

The EBAC will also be a source of advice for the Human Resources Department concerning benefit
administration.

EBAC MEMBERSHIP:

The EBAC will be comprised of the following voting membership:

        4 representatives from AFSCME, selected by AFSCME
        2 representatives from DCSA
        1 representative from 701
        1 representative from 9-1-1
        1 representative from DCDAA
        1 Human Resources Director
        1 Risk Manager
        5 Department Heads, Managers, and/or Elected Officials
        1 Representative for COIC (Central Oregon Intergovernmental Council)

The County Administrator will be a non-voting member of the committee. Additional non-voting members
may be appointed at the discretion of the committee. A Chair and Vice Chair will be selected annually by the
committee, with one position to be filled by a manager or elected official, and the other will be a non-
management representative.

The Human Resources Department will provide staff support to the committee.




AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                          Page |29
MINIMUM MEETING REQUIREMENTS:

At a minimum, the EBAC will meet eight (8) times per Fiscal Year. Additional meetings may be scheduled at
the discretion of the committee. Subcommittees may also be established at the discretion of the committee.

The EBAC may request the removal or replacement of a voting member who is not able to attend two (2) or
more consecutive EBAC meetings, or four (4) or more meetings in any twelve month period.

Minutes of each meeting for the three years preceding will be kept by the County and posted on the County’s
intranet site. The County will send out communications to all employees with instructions for accessing meeting
minutes on the County’s intranet site on an interval agreed upon mutually by the County and the Union. All
EBAC members will receive notice of planned meetings.

The meetings will be open to all interested employees.




AFSCME – 2025-597                                                                                      Page |30
 SIGNATURE PAGE


                    DATE this   / g-f\- Day or ~   J.._.,_U_A.t_
                                                             ___    _   _      2025.


                                BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
                                OFDESCHUTESCOUNTY,OREGON


                                Anthony DeBone, Chair    '---=

                                ~cc~ ~

         FOR THE UNION


                                                          (l1M" Curltvr2
         Dustin Fanning-Painter, AFSCME                  Ines CurJand, AFSCME
         Negotiati Team Member                           Negotiating Team Member




                          SCME
                       Team Member                                 75 Reprcs




                                          Date




AFSCME - 2025-597
