                                                                                    cot ees


                                                                                               REVIEWED

                                                                                              LESGL CaaS,


                          Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between
                                       Deschutes County and
                  Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees  Association Regarding Section 16.G.1

                                                                                                      9-
This Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) is entered into by and between the Deschutes County
                                                                                              ”). The
1-1 Service District (“District”) and the Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association (“Association
                                                                                                  and
District and the Association are parties to the Collective Bargaining Agreement between DC911
Deschutes County 9-1-1 Employees      Association: July 1, 2022 — June 30, 2026 ("CBA").

                                                                                           added to
As agreed to by the parties during bargaining concerning the CBA, a new Section 16.G.1 was
the CBA, which states as follows:


         if the District anticipates that a staffing shortage will occur on the 9-1-1 Call Center
         operations floor and there is insufficient time to remedy the shortage by assigning
         overtime pursuant to Subsection E above, the District may request employees who are
         not scheduled to work during the anticipated shortage to volunteer to fill the shortage.
         The District must communicate requests for volunteers by posting available overtime
         shifts at least 24 hours prior to the anticipated shortage. If more employees volunteer
         than needed to fill the anticipated staffing shortage, whenever possible volunteers will be
         chosen in the order of seniority.

                                                                                                           in filling
The parties agree the intent of Section 16.G.1 is to provide the District with increased flexibility
                                                                                                    (and   thus
staffing shortages that occur with less than fourteen days’ but more than 24 hours’ notice
                                                                                                    of the CBA),
cannot be remedied via the use of assigned mandatory overtime pursuant to Section 16.E
                                employees    assigned  to pager  duty  in such   situations, and to   incentivize
to decrease the need to utilize
Association members to volunteer to fill   such  shortages  when   the  need   arises.

                                                                                               hours
The parties further agree that in general compensation paid to employees to work overtime
                                                                          (1 1/2) times the regular  rate of
pursuant to Section 16 of the CBA is paid at the rate of one and one-half
pay converted to an hourly rate. (See Section 16.C.)

                                                                                                           to an
Finally, the parties agree that currently the District is experiencing suboptimal staffing levels
                                    such suboptimal   levels  will likely persist  into   the  foreseeable    future
unprecedented degree, and that
                                                          in Central   Oregon.    For   this  reason,  the parties
due, at least in part, to current workforce conditions
                                                                                                           plan for and
agree there is a current need to provide the District with additional options and flexibility to
react to staffing shortages that occur on short notice and      to incentivize   Association     members     to
                                                                             agree   an   enhanced    incentive    for
volunteer to fill such shortages. For these reasons, the parties each
                                                                                   d    during   the  term  of  the
employees to volunteer when such shortages occur should be implemente
current CBA and while suboptimal staffing levels persist.




                                                                                Document # DG 2022-576 - 1


                                                                                                pc- 222-576
In furtherance of the parties’ mutual intent to provide for the use of voluntary overtime by Association
members when staffing shortages occur on short notice (less than fourteen days but more than 24
hours) as described above, the parties hereby agree as follows:

    4.   For the duration of the current CBA, but only during those times when total staffing for the
         operations floor is less than 40 full-time equivalent Association-represented employees,
         overtime hours worked by such employees who volunteer to fill anticipated staffing shortages
         pursuant to Section 16.G.1 will be compensated at the rate of two (2) times the regular rate of
         pay converted to an hourly rate, Subject to the same conditions described herein concerning
         payment of wages for volunteering to pursuant to Section 16.G.1, if an employee and the
         District mutually agree, non-exempt employees may receive compensatory time off at rate of
         two (2) times the regular rate of pay converted to an hourly rate.

    2.   The District shall have authority to fully implement the provistons of Section 16.G.1 beginning
         June 15, 2022, regardless of whether the CBA Is fully bargained to completion and executed by
         the parties as of that date. The District and the Association each acknowledge the new Section
         16.G.1 as contemplated herein is mutually beneficial given the current unprecedented staffing
         levels on the 9-1-1 Call Center operations floor, and each desire to implement-this mechanism to
         help alleviate staffing shortages that arise with less than fourteen (14) days’ notice and
         incentivize employees to volunteer to fill such shortages as quickly as Is practicable, regardless
         of the outcome of bargaining on the other Issues currently opened for bargaining by the parties.
         For this reason, the parties acknowledge they have fully bargained the addition of Section
         16.G.1 to the CBA in good faith and hereby agree to its addition to thé CBA in full force and
         effect as of June 15, 2022, and that such addition is independent of bargaining, or the outcome
         of such bargaining, as to the remainder of the CBA. While the District’s obligations pursuant to
         this Paragraph 2 dre independent of Its obligations pursuant to paragraph 1 above, the District
         hereby agrees to compensate employees who volunteer to fill anticipated staffing shortages
         pursuant to Section 16.G.1 at the rate of two (2) times the regular rate of pay converted to an
         hourly rate beginning June 15, 2022.

    3.   This MOU will terminate and the District’s obligations pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 2 above
         shall become void and unenforceable as of the end of the day on June 30, 2026, unless the
         parties mutually agree to extend the duration of this MOU,

    4.   Should any provision or provisions of this MOU be construed by a court of competent
         jurisdiction to be void, invalid or unenforceable, such construction shall affect only the provision
         of provisions so construed, and shall not affect, impair or invalidate any of the other provisions
         of this MOU which shall remain in full force and effect.

    5.   The provisions of this MOU are contractual and are not mere recitals. All terms, provisions and
         conditions of the MOU shall be binding upon and Inure to the benefit of the parties and to their
         respective heirs, executors, administrators, agents, representatives, successors and assigns.

    6.   This MOU shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of
         Oregon.

    7.   This MOU may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which together shall be
         deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. In


                                                                          Document # DC 2022-576 - 2
                                                                                                    of a ".pdf'
         the event that any signature is delivered by facsimile transmission or by email delivery
                                                                                                           of
         format data file or a similar format, such signature shall create a valid and binding obligation
                                                                                                      and
         the party executing (or on whose behalf such signature is executed) with the same force
         effect as if such facsimile or ".pdf” signature page is original thereof.

                                                                                          or The
    8.   Any dispute concerning the terms and conditions of this MOU brought by DC911
                                                                    resolved under the terms  of Article
         Association on behalf of its represented employees will be
         28 (Grievance Procedure) of the CBA.

                                                                                                            shall
    9.   Except and unless specifically modified by this MOU, all terms and conditions of the CBA
                                         any of the  terms  of  this MOU     conflict  with those in the CBA,   the
         remain in effect. To the extent
         term and conditions of this MOU shall   prevail for  so  long as it  is in effect.

                                                                                       their own legal
    10. The parties acknowledge that they have had the opportunity to consult with
                                                                   with their  own  legal  counsel
        counsel before signing and that they have either consulted
                                                                              y  elected   not to consult
        regarding the terms and consequences of this MOU or have voluntaril
        with an attorney before signing.

                                                                                 THREE-PAGE
BY SIGNING BELOW EACH OF THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY HAVE READ THIS
                                       UNDERSTA ND    AND AGREE  TO  ITS TERMS  AND  THE
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING, THEY
                                           SIGNED  IT  KNOWINGL Y   AND  VOLUNTARI LY.
CONSEQUENCES THEREOF, AND THAT THEY HAVE

Agreed to on this Ses         day of June, 2022.

Signatures:

                                                                                             (0/24/22
Sara Crosswhite, Deschutes County 9-1-1 Service District                          Date



    Kf                   A                                                               latter
                                                                                                    /
            a

 AAI                                                                                     »    dowd

                avero, Deschutes 9-1-1 Employees Association                      Date          l
Krista Mu




                                                                                Document # DC 2022-576 - 3
