                                                                       REVIEWED
                                                                        (fe
                                                                        UY
                                                               }     LEGAL COUNS as


 Memorandum of Understanding Between Deschutes County and The American Federation
            of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) Local 3997
   --AGREEMENT REGARDING       DESCHUTES COUNTY STABILIZATION CENTER EMPLOYEES--
                            Original Effective: December 1, 2021


                                  Document #DC-2021-898


This Scheduling and Employment Agreement (Agreement) is hereby entered into by and
    between Deschutes County (County) and AFSCME Council 75 (Union) on behalf of
    AFSCME Local 3997 and the full-time employees of the Crisis Stabilization Center
   employees to define the terms and conditions of employment for and establish the
   schedules of Crisis Stabilization Center employees. This Agreement can be reviewed at
   any time by request of either the County or MCAT. The County and MCAT will schedule
   the first meeting within 30 days from the date of the request.

                                           Recitals
WHEREAS, the Deschutes County Health Services Department (DCHS) and Crisis Stabilization
   Center employees are mutually interested in establishing an employment relationship in
   the Mobile Crisis Assessment Team (Crisis Stabilization Center employees) to define the
   terms and conditions of employment for and establish the schedules of Crisis
   Stabilization Center employees.
WHEREAS, DCHS, AFSCME, Local 3997 (AFSCME), and Crisis Stabilization Center employees
   recognize and agree that due to the unique nature of the Crisis Stabilization Center
   program and the work performed by Crisis Stabilization Center employees, the terms and
   conditions of employment agreed to herein shall apply solely to Crisis Stabilization Center
   employees.
WHEREAS, the Crisis Program is a division of DCHS tasked generally with providing face to
   face and telephonic crisis support for individuals experiencing a mental health crisis;
WHEREAS, the Crisis Program includes two divisions performing separate but interrelated
   functions, including the Mobile Crisis Assessment Team (MCAT”) and Deschutes County
   Stabilization Center (“DCSC”);
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises and covenants set forth herein,
   the County, AFSCME, and the Crisis Stabilization Center employees each agree as follows:

                                        AGREEMENT
The changes outlined in this Agreement will become effective on the first day of the month
    immediately following the agreement being signed. Until then, the existing Crisis
    Stabilization Center Scheduling and Employment Agreement will remain in full force and
   effect.




                                                                              DC-2021-898
               A.             Overview of Position and Schedule:

               The purpose of the Crisis Stabilization Center is to provide the community with (24) twenty-four
               hour crisis coverage as an effective alternative to the emergency department and criminal
               justice system. The Crisis Stabilization Center provides excellent community service by
               sustaining a healthy and knowledgeable workforce.


                          1.            Minimum staffing indicates the number of people who will remain in the building
                                        throughout the entire shift. Each shift will consist of three employees (including
                                        contractors.) Staffing is at the discretion of the supervisors and program manager based
                                        on operational needs and may be adjusted as needed. The safety committee which is
                                        comprised of staff and leadership will be utilized to review this policy moving forward.


                         2.             An employee working at the Stabilization Center will be assigned a regularly scheduled
                                        shift, either Day, Swing, or Night. Employees will be paid a shift differential when the
                                        majority of hours worked during a regularly scheduled shift occur in either the Swing or
                                        Night shifts. "Majority of hours" means a number of whole hours greater than one-half
                                        (including meal breaks), e.g., 5 hours of an 8 hour shift:


                                                                      Hours               Shift Differential
                                                            3 p.m. to midnight        7 % percent differential
                                                            11 p.m. to 8 a.m.         10 percent differential


                                            The table above does not define the hours of the assigned shifts, hours worked will be
                                            the department’s discretion.


                                            Upon execution of this MOU, Section 3.c. of the MOU Regarding Health Services Crisis
                                            Program Position Incentives, Document #DC-2021-711, shall become null and void.


                         3.             Staff are able to trade shifts with prior supervisor approval. In determining the approval
                                        the supervisor will consider implications of overtime, flexing hours, using TML, minimum
                                        staffing, and any other factors. If exempt staff swap a day shift for a swing or night shift,
                                        the person working the swing or night shift will be provided a stipend of $185 for a swing
                                        shift, or $250 for a 12-hour night shift.


                         4.             Holidays:




                         Document #DC-2021-898                                                                                2
£55        a        et         G   uy   ‘       vy   Fone



Misti
  Dba ty ef
      oe
         a.   Employees will accrue eight (8) hours per month for personal time off in lieu of
              holidays. All part time employees (half time or more) shall accrue on a prorated
              basis.
                 i.     No payment in lieu of holiday time off shall be made in the event an
                        employee passes away, resigns, or is discharged from employment within
                        the initial six months of employment. After the first six months of
                        employment, employees are entitled to payment of accrued personal
                        time off in lieu of holidays, prorated through any portion of the last pay
                        period.
         b.   Upon application, which can be made no more than twice per fiscal year, a
              Deschutes County Stabilization Center employee may be paid for up to 48 hours
              per fiscal year for personal time accrued under Section A. Up to 96 hours of
              personal time may be carried from fiscal year to fiscal year. Employees who have
              accrued more than 96 hours of personal (holiday) time as of July 1 of each fiscal
              year will forfeit any time above that 96-hour limit.
         c.   Inthe event a non-exempt employee is required to work on one of the holidays
              identified below, which shall mean having to work between 12:00:00 a.m. and
              11:59:59 p.m. on the date of the holiday, the employee shall be granted time off
              or receive compensation in the amount equal to the employee’s regular straight
              time rate plus an additional amount equal to one and one-half (1 1/2) times the
              regular straight time rate for the hours worked on that holiday.
         d.   Inthe event an exempt employee is required to work on one of the holidays
              identified below, which shall mean having to work between 12:00:00 a.m. and
              11:59:59 p.m. on the date of the holiday, the employee shall receive their salary
              plus be granted time off or receive compensation in the amount equal to one (1)
              times the regular straight time rate for the hours worked on that holiday.
                 i.     Thanksgiving Day
                ii.    | Christmas Day
               iii     | New Year’s Day
               iv.      Independence Day
                v.      Memorial Day


5.   Holiday Schedule: Time off on commonly requested dates for the year will be submitted
     by email on pre-determined bidding date(s), and will be granted based on seniority and
     holiday leave granted in the previous year. Procedures for requesting holidays off are
     found in the operating policy. The Betterment Committee which is comprised of staff and
     leadership will be utilized to review this policy moving forward. This process will go into
     effect on January 2, 2022.


Document #DC-2021-898                                                                         3
6.        If a supervisor determines extra staffing coverage is needed, exempt employees will be
          provided a stipend for picking up extra work hours in addition to their normal schedule.
          QMHP employees will be compensated $350 to cover an 8-hour stabilization center shift.
          A prorated amount will be provided if they work less than 8 hours. Non-exempt
          employees may also be asked to provide staffing coverage in which case they would
          receive compensation in the amount equal to one-half (1 1/2) times the regular straight
          time rate for the hours worked on that shift.   If the shift cannot be filled internally, the
          Internal On-call Crisis Response Pool Agreement will be utilized.


          Employees who are utilized for a portion of a shift will be paid a pro-rated portion of the
          stipend based on the number of hours worked within the shift divided by the total hours
          in the shift. No additional TML will accrue when employees work theses shifts.


          Upon execution of this MOU, Section 3.b.ii.2-4 of the MOU Regarding Health Services
          Crisis Program Position Incentives, Document #DC-2021-711, and the entire MOU
          Regarding Extra Staffing Coverage at the Crisis Stabilization Center, Document #DC-2021-
          733, shall become null and void.


          In the event of an internal transfer, transfer timelines will be determined by the
          Supervisors of the affected teams. If an agreement between the supervisors is not
          reached, they will enlist assistance of the program manager and director to come toa
          final decision. Employees who are separating from the county will give a minimum of 30
          days’ notice of their departure.


B.        General Provisions


     1.    Crisis Stabilization Center employees are represented by AFSCME. Except for the terms
           and conditions of employment unique to Crisis Stabilization Center employees that are
           agreed to herein, all terms and conditions of employment for Crisis Stabilization Center
           employees shall otherwise be governed by the CBA, Deschutes County personnel rules,
           and/or other applicable Deschutes County policies. No aspects of this Agreement will be
           applicable to other DCHS personnel and/or other AFSCME- represented employees.

          This Agreement constitutes the only exception to the Deschutes County HR-Personnel
          Rules, applicable Deschutes County policies and practices, and the provisions of the CBA
          agreed to by Crisis Stabilization Center employees, AFSCME, and DCHS. Crisis
          Stabilization Center employees, AFSCME and the County agree that the arrangement
          reflected in and governed by this Agreement is unique to Crisis Stabilization Center,

Document #DC-2021-898                                                                              4
            does not create a precedent or an enforceable practice or policy for the County or its
            employees, or otherwise affected or impact in any way other County employees
            covered by the CBA.


       3.   Should any provision or provisions of this Agreement be construed by a court of
            competent jurisdiction to be void, invalid or unenforceable, such construction shall
            affect only the provision or provisions so construed, and shall not affect, impair or
            invalidate any of the other provisions of this Agreement which shall remain in full force
            and effect.


       4.   Provisions of this Agreement are contractual and are not mere recitals. All terms,
            provisions and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the
            benefit of the parties and to their respective heirs, executors, administrators, agents,
            representatives, successors and assigns.


       5.   This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the
            State of Oregon.


       6.   This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which together
            shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same
            instrument. In the event that any signature is delivered by facsimile transmission or by
            e-mail deliver of a “.pdf” format data file or a similar format, such signature shall create
            a valid and binding obligation of the party executing (or on whose behalf such signature
            is executed) with the same force and effect as if such facsimile or “.pdf” signature page
            is an original thereof.




Agreed to this        30     day of      _Nov.      , 2021




Mle
Nick Lelack
                            —Wak—                      Beadd laine)
                                                             Brenda ohnson
for Deschutes County                                         for Oregon AFSCME   Local 3997



 20/0 |                                                       | \\ [205
                                                              oz




Date                                                         Date




   Document #DC-2021-898                                                                          5
