       Oe,         i

                                            es \)
       LEGAL   COUNSEL                  L
                                       Ly
                                       Q




            Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Deschutes County and
     American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Local 3997 (AFSCME)
     Regarding Behavioral Health Service Area Field Licensure, Student Intern and Physician
                            Resident Clinical Supervision Incentives

                                        DC Document #2023-1035


This Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) is entered into by and between Deschutes County (the
"County') and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Local 3997
("AFSCME"). The County and AFSCME are parties to the Agreement Between Deschutes County and the
American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Local 3997 (Agreement). The purpose of
this MOU is for Deschutes County and AFSCME to come to an agreement providing the County discretion
to implement incentive programs addressing challenging recruitment, retention, and capacity issues for
certain behavioral health positions that often require employees to possess specific skills and licensure in
order to be begin and/or maintain employment in the Behavioral Health service area. Such hard to fill
positions often require specific field licensure, student internship experience, or physician residency.
However, the County has often found it difficult to provide internal clinical supervision toward field
licensure, student internships, or physician residencies in such positions due to the unavailability or
unwillingness of qualified behavioral health employees to take on the responsibility of providing the
required clinical supervision for employees engaged in these programs.         This in turn has made it more
difficult to hire and retain employees for these hard to fill positions. The County therefore believes it is
advisable to incentivize qualified employees in the Behavioral Health Division to provide clinical
supervision to employees requiring such clinical supervision toward relevant field licensure, for student
interns, and for physician residents. For these reasons, incentives provided in and agreements arising
under this MOU shall apply only to those behavioral health service area programs providing clinical
supervision for licensure, and to applicable student interns and physician residents related to positions
identified as hard to fill by Deschutes County, in its sole discretion. For purposes of this MOU, the term
“clinical supervision” pertains to a structured tutorial process by which a professional employee mentors
another in applying principles and theories learned in a classroom environment to form practical
professional expertise and skills. This form of supervision is distinguished from administrative supervision
which pertains primarily to assigning   job duties and monitoring an employee’s job performance.

County behavioral health programs are experiencing recruitment and retention challenges for certain
behavioral health clinical positions. Examples of hard to fill positions include but are not limited to
nurses, physicians, and occupational therapists. Recruitment and retention challenges are caused by the
current labor market, the nature of the work, and the limited number of individuals internally available
to provide the required clinical supervision for these positions. Qualified and licensed behavioral health
clinical staff increase the program's capacity to ensure professional accountability, service quality and



                                                                                DC Document #2023-1035
revenue. By enhancing the availability of clinical supervision to current and potential behavioral health
staff, the County intends to provide a more robust and available path for attraction, retainment, and
advancement for employees to hard to fill positions. The County would like to offer the incentive
program detailed below to new and current employees qualified to provide clinical supervision to
stabilize and increase the County's capacity to support important services to the community by retaining
staff qualified to provide Supervision.

The incentive program as described in this MOU serves to replace the County’s previous BH Field Licensure
Supervision Incentive Program as formalized with AFSCME on December 7, 2022. The new incentive
program     differs from   the previous    program      by providing the County      sole discretion to provide
compensation to staff who provide clinical supervision to certain Student Interns and Physician Residents,
in addition to staff providing Field Licensure Supervision to employees pursuing mental health licensure
consistent with the Behavioral Health Specialist !I, Licensed classification as described in the previous
MOU with AFSCME formalized on December 7, 2022.

The parties agree as follows:

    1.    Eligibility for incentives as outlined in this MOU is limited to staff providing clinical supervision to
          students, residents, or licensure candidates as part of their studies related to academic and
          licensing programs identified by the County as likely to yield qualified candidates for positions
          evaluated as hard to fill. The County, in its sole discretion, shall determine the specific academic
          and licensing programs likely to yield qualified candidates for positions evaluated as hard to fill
          by the County. Positions evaluated as hard to fill may differ as determined by department or
          elected office management. Incentives will not be provided to staff who provide clinical
          supervision related to academic or licensure programs not identified by the County as likely to
          yield qualified candidates for positions evaluated as hard to fill by the County.

    2.    The County, in its sole discretion, shall make assignments to behavioral health staff who they
          deem qualified and suitable to provide clinical supervision for employees in positions deemed by
          the County to be hard to fill. Incentive compensation as outlined in this MOU is subject to
          availability of funds and pilot methods to increase the County's capacity to provide clinical
          supervision. The County may increase, reduce, or terminate compensation or other incentives as
          allowed under Federal, State, County laws and/or policies. Nothing in this MOU or the Agreement
          shall preclude the County from making changes to the incentive programs detailed below,
          including discontinuing any or all of such programs for any reason.

    3.    Pursuant to this MOU, the County may implement the following incentive program:

              a. Behavioral Health Clinical Supervision Incentive Temporary Program:
                       |. The County, at its sole discretion, may offer an incentive pursuant to this MOU
                           that encourages staff to provide licensure, student intern, and physician
                           resident clinical supervision to internal, eligible employees, students and
                           residents. If offered, the incentive program will include:

                              1. Stipend Pay for qualifying staff providing clinical supervision as follows:

                                      a.   $300   per    month   in   additional   pay   for   providing   clinical
                                           supervision as assigned for one licensure associate employee,


                                                                                     DC Document #2023-1035
              applicable student intern, and/or physician resident during any
              portion of the pay period relevant to the stipend payment;
       b.     $350 per month in additional pay for providing clinical
              supervision as assigned for two (2) licensure associate
              employees,    applicable  student  interns,  and/or   physician
              residents during any portion of the pay period relevant to the
              stipend payment. This number can also include facilitating a
              monthly     licensure     or    student   intern/physician  resident
              Supervision group.
       c.     $400 per month in additional pay for providing clinical
              supervision as assigned for three licensure associate employees,
              applicable student interns, and/or physician residents during any
              portion of the pay period relevant to the stipend payment. This
              number can also include facilitating one or more monthly
              licensure or student/physician resident Supervision groups.
       d.     $450 per month in additional pay for providing clinical
              supervision as assigned for four (4) or more licensure associate
              employees,     applicable     student    interns,  and/or  physician
              residents during any portion of the pay period relevant to the
              stipend payment. This number can also include facilitating one or
              more     monthly      licensure     or  student/physician   resident
              Supervision groups.

2. Employee    Eligibility to Receive Clinical Supervision Incentive:


       a.     Individuals that will qualify for this stipend are any staff member
              qualified to provide clinical supervision and assigned by the
              County to provide clinical supervision to another staff member,
              student intern, or resident as part of an academic or licensing
              program identified by the County as likely to yield qualified
              candidates for behavioral! health positions identified as hard to
              fill by the County;
       b.     Employees     assigned    clinical supervision  and _ receiving
              compensation under this program will remain eligible to
              participate in other incentive programs offered by the County
              relevant to the employee's position;
       c.     Employees assigned lead duties will not          be   excluded   from
              eligibility to participate in this program.

       d.     Employees at step 2 (written reprimand) or higher of progressive
              discipline as defined by Article 6 of the AFSCME contract will be
              ineligible for licensure, student intern or physician resident
              clinical supervision assignments or stipend pay and will not be
              permitted to provide clinical supervision to eligible employee,
              student interns, or physician residents unti! the County deems
              the employee to have effectively brought their performance to
              an acceptable level.



                                                       DC Document #2023-1035
                               e.   Managers    and/or   their   delegate   will   have   discretion   to
                                    approve someone to provide licensure, student intern, or
                                    physician resident clinical supervision. Factors to consider are
                                    meeting key indicators of performance, such as, service hour
                                    targets, documentation timeline requirements, and caseload
                                    management, to name a few.

               ii.   This is an incentive program and the parties agree that this incentive program is
                     not precedent-setting and does not in any way establish a binding precedent or
                     past practice against the County, As such, this incentive program may be
                     suspended or terminated at any time at the County's discretion.

   Should any provision or provisions of this MOU be construed by a court of competent jurisdiction
   to be void, invalid or unenforceable, such construction shall affect only the provision of
   provisions so construed, and shall not affect, impair or invalidate any of the other provisions of
   this MOU which shall remain in full force and effect.

   The provisions of this MOU are contractual and are not mere recitals. All terms, provisions and
   conditions of the MOU shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and to their
   respective heirs, executors, administrators, agents, representatives, successors and assigns.

   This MOU shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of
   Oregon.

   This MOU may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which together shall be deemed
   an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. In the event
   that any signature is delivered by facsimile transmission or by email delivery of a" .pdf' format
   data file or a similar format, such signature shall create a valid and binding obligation of the party
   executing (or on whose behalf such signature is executed) with the same force and effect as if
   such facsimile or ".pdf signature page is original thereof.

   Any dispute concerning the terms and conditions of this MOU brought by the County or AFSCME
   on behalf of its represented employees will be resolved under the terms of Article 7- Grievance
   Procedure, of the Agreement.

   Effective immediately upon execution of this MOU, the agreement Memorandum of
   Understanding (MOU) between Deschutes County and American Federation of State, County and
   Municipal Employees Local 3997 (AFSCME) Regarding Behavioral Health Service Area Field
   Licensure Supervision Incentives (DC Document #2022-874) shall be null, void, and no longer in
   effect. Any existing agreements with staff providing clinical supervision at the time this MOU           is
   executed will remain in full force and effect under the terms of this MOU.

10. Except and unless specifically modified by this MOU, all terms and conditions of the Agreement
   shall remain in effect. To the extent any of the terms of this MOU conflict with those in the
   Agreement, the terms and conditions of this MOU shall prevail for so long as it is in effect.

11. The parties acknowledge that they have had the opportunity to consult with their own legal
    counsel before signing and that they have either consulted with their own legal counsel regarding


                                                                            DC Document #2023-1035
                                                                                          with an
        the terms and consequences of this MOU or have voluntarily elected not to consult
        attorney before signing.

                                                                         THIS FOUR-PAGE
BY SIGNING BELOW EACH OF THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY HAVE READ
                                                                         TERMS AND THE
   MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING, THEY UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO ITS
                                       HAVE SIGNED IT KNOWING LY AND VOLUNTAR ILY.
   CONSEQUENCES THEREOF, AND THAT THEY

Agreed to on this _22Nd day of December, 2023

Signatures:


                                                               {2/22/2023
Nick Lelack for Desthutes County                             Date



                                                             Date




                                                                            DC Document #2023-1035
