                       Memorandum of Understanding between Deschutes County
                          and the Deschutes County District Attorneys Association
                     Re: Deputy District Attorney Retention Bonus Incentive Program



This Memorandum of Understand ing (" MOU" ) is entered into by and between Deschutes County
("County" ) and the Deschutes County District Attorneys Association ("Association" ). The County and the
Association are parties to the Collective Bargaining Agreement between Deschutes County and the
Deschutes County District Attorneys Association, dated July 1, 2023 - June 30, 2026 ("CBA" ).

The Deschutes County District Attorney' s Office is currently experiencing employee retention issues w ith
its Deputy District Attorneys caused by lingering issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic, current local
and national labor market conditions, and the intensity of the work. The County would therefore like to
offer a one-time retention incentive program as detailed below to offer to existing employees in the
Deputy District Attorney I, II, 111, Supervising Deputy District Attorney and Ch ief Deputy District Attorney
job classifications (collectively, " Deputy District Attorney," " Deputy," or " Deputies") to stabilize staffing
among its licensed prosecutorial staff.

The purpose of this MOU is for the County and the Association to come to an agreement to provide the
County with the abi lity to immed iately implement an incentive program addressing the challenging
retention issues currently impacting the District Attorney's Office in retain ing licensed prosecutorial staff.

In furtherance of the parties' desire to improve retention of Deputy District Attorneys, the parties hereby
agree as follows :

    1. The County, in its sole discretion, shall select positions eligible to receive incentive compensation
         and pilot methods to address retention issues within its Deputy District Attorney classifications.
         The County may expand or contract compensation or other incentives as allowed under federal
         and state law, County ordinances and/or policies, or common law. Nothing in this MOU shall
         preclude the County from making changes, in its discretion, to the incentive program detailed
         herein, including discontinuing the program for any reason . However, the County shall honor
         any previously executed individual retention bonus agreements to the extent participating
         Deputy District Attorneys fulfill the required reciprocal obligations provided in such agreements.

    2. The Association acknowledges that under ORS 243 .672{1)(e) the parties are obl igated to bargain
       in good faith prior to altering the statu s quo of any mandatory subject of bargain ing that is not
       included in the CBA. The Association hereby waives any right under federal , state, or common
       law to bargain any aspect of the incentive program detailed in th is MOU, including the
       implementation, modification, or discontinuation of the program .

    3.   Pursuant to this MOU, the County may, in its discretion, implement the following incentive
         program :




                                                                                     Dc- 2023 - 6 5 1
a.   Deputy District Attorney Retention Bonus - Temporary Program :

          i.   The County, at its sole discretion, may offer a retention bonus to any currently
               employed, qualified Deputy District Attorney, as determined by the County in
               consultation with the District Attorney. This is a one-time incentive program and
               the parties agree it does not create a binding or enforceable precedent or past
               practice.

         ii . A Deputy District Attorney's acceptance of any retention bonus shall be
              voluntary and shall require a minimum three-year {36 month) commitment, to
              be memorialized by a written agreement obligating the participating Deputy to
              work directly for or in support of the Deschutes County District Attorney' s Office
               as a Deputy District Attorney. Retention bonuses will be paid as follows :

                   l.   The eligible bonus will be paid in full on the first available, regularly
                        scheduled pay date after the date of full ratification of the CBA and
                        execution of a written retention bonus agreement by the participating
                        Deputy District Attorney;

                   2. The total bonus shall not exceed $3,000.00 without prior County
                        approval;

                   3. Bonus payments will be made available to Deputy District Attorneys for
                      a period of thirty {30) days following full ratification of the CBA; and

                   4. Bonus payments received pursuant to this incentive program are one-
                      time only; Deputy District Attorneys who are eligible to receive a bonus
                        payment pursuant to this MOU sha ll have no expectation of further
                        compensation for participating in the incentive program detailed in this
                        MOU than as otherwise provided in subparagraphs 1-3 herein.

        iii.   Deputies who voluntarily resign, retire, voluntarily transfer to a position outside
               of the Deputy District Attorney classifications within the County, or receive
               discipline at the written reprimand level or higher, including discharge from
               employment, as defined in Article 13, Section A of the CBA, after receipt of the
               retention bonus but prior to fulfilling the three -year {36-month) commitment
               described herein shall reimburse the County the unearned portion of the bonus
               at the prorated rate of 1/36 of their total bonus for each month not worked
               during the 36-month period specified in subparagraph ii. above.

        iv. The required written agreement noted in paragraph ii above shall, at minimum,
            include provisions requiring the following :

                   l.   The employee shall remain in a Deputy District Attorney classification
                        w ithin the County for a min imum of three years {36 months);

                   2.   In the event that the full three-year {36-month) time commitment is not
                        met, employees shall be obl igated to re imburse the County the
                        prorated, unearned portion of the bonus paid to them ; and
                             3. If the employee' s employment with the District Attorney' s Office ends
                                 for any reason before full reimbursement of all amounts due, the
                                 employee shall be required to reimburse all remaining amounts due
                                 within ninety (90) days of their last day of employment with the County.

   4. Should any provision or provisions of this MOU be construed by a court of competent
      jurisdiction to be void, invalid or unenforceable, such construction shall affect only the provision
        of provisions so construed, and shall not affect, impair, or invalidate any of the other provisions
        of this MOU which shall remain in full force and effect.

   5. The provisions of this MOU are contractual and are not mere recitals . All terms, provisions and
        conditions of the MOU shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and to their
        respective heirs, executors, administrators, agents, representatives, successors, and assigns.

   6. This MOU shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of
      Oregon .

   7. This MOU may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which together shall be
        deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. In
                                                                                                      11
        the event that any signature is delivered by facsimile transmission or by email delivery of a .pdf'
        format data file or a similar format, such signature shall create a valid and binding obligation of
        the party executing (or on whose behalf such signature is executed) with the same force and
        effect as if such facsimile or 11 .pdf" signature page is original thereof.

   8.   Any dispute concerning the terms and conditions of this MOU brought by the County or the
        Association on behalf of its represented employees will be resolved under the terms of Article 12
        (Grievance Procedure) of the CBA.

   9.   Except and unless specifically modified by this MOU, all terms and conditions of the CBA shall
        remain in effect. To the extent any of the terms of this MOU conflict with those in the CBA, the
        term and conditions of this MOU shall prevail for so long as it is in effect.

   10. The parties acknowledge that they have had the opportunity to consult with their own legal
       counsel before signing and that they have either consulted with their own legal counsel
       regarding the terms and consequences of this MOU or have voluntarily elected not to consult
       with an attorney before signing.



[SIGNATURES TO FOLLOW]
 BY SIGNING BELOW EACH OF THE PARTIES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY HAVE READ THIS THREE-PAGE
 MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING, THEY UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO ITS TERMS AND THE
 CONSEQUENCES THEREOF, AND THAT THEY HAVE SIGNED IT KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY.

 Agreed to on this _30th
                     _ day of June, 2023.




 s~/4&:
 Stephen Gunnels, District Attorney                         Date



  Nilk----lJir
 Nick Lelack, County Adm inistrator                         Date



52 /,A,t I ~
Deschutes County District Attorneys
Association
~. M,r-.)t•,.,./ SuJA-Lr
P.--~ . .a...it-- .... \-tM,~
