5/14/2026
05/13/2026
                             MEMORANDUM        OF UNDERSTANDING

               Proration of Health Savings Account Contributions Clarification
                                  MOU AFG-25-21/AFN-25-06

This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into, by and between Lane County hereinafter
referred to as COUNTY, and the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal
Employees (AFSCME), Local 2831- General and Nurses Units, hereinafter referred to as
UNION, for the purposes of clarifying provisions related to County contributions to employee
health savings accounts.

It is hereby agreed that:

    1.   The parties agreed to modifications related to County contributions to employee health
         savings accounts during negotiations for the 2024-2027 Collective Bargaining
         Agreement (CBA).

   2.    In order to clarify the health savings account process for new employees who elect the
         High Deductible Health Plan, Article 12, Section 2 of the CBA will be modified as follows:


         (A)    Employees hired on or before December 31, 2024 will have the choice between
                a point of service plan (the “Co-Pay Plan’), the High Deductible Health Plan
                (HDHP) with a Health Savings Account (HSA) or Health Reimbursement
                Arrangement (HRA) via a Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association (' VEBA)
                or the Plus Plan. Employees hired on or after January 1, 2025 will have the
                choice between the Plus Plan or the HDHP with an HSA/HRA-VEBA. All three
                plans include coverage for a vision exam. Employees may elect to move from
                plan to plan during subsequent open enrollment periods based on their hire date.

         (B)    Effective January 1, 2025 for all employees who elect the HDHP, the COUNTY
                will deposit an amount equivalent to the annual deductible, based on their
                enrollment as Employee Only, one thousand six hundred fifty ($1,650) or
                Employee + Other, three thousand three hundred dollars ($3,300), into the
                employee’s HSA or HRA-VEBA.

                Effective January 1, 2026 the deductible for the HDHP    will be two thousand
         (C)
                dollars ($2,000) for Employee Only and four thousand dollars ($4,000) for
                Employee + Other. For all employees who elect the HDHP plan, the COUNTY
                will deposit, based on employee enrollment, one thousand six hundred dollars
                ($1,600) for Employee Only or three thousand two hundred dollars ($3,200) for
                Employee + Other into the employee's HSA or HRA-VEBA, at the employee’s
                option.

         (D)    Effective January 1, 2026 for all employees who elect the HDHP and participate
                in the Live Well Health Risk Assessment (LWHRA), as described in Section 2 (1)
MOU AFG-25-21/AFN-25-06 continued


             (4) below, by November 30 each calendar year, the COUNTY will deposit in the
             next calendar year, based on employee enrollment, four hundred dollars ($400)
             for Employee Only or eight hundred dollars ($800) for Employee + Other into the
             employee’s HSA or HRA-VEBA, at the employee’s option.

      (E)    Applicable deposits for employees who elect the HDHP will occur within the first
             five (5) business days following January 1 for each year of this Agreement.




      (F)    For all new hires who elect the HDHP, the COUNTY will deposit a prorated
             amount, equivalent to the deductible, in the employee’s HSA/HRA-VEBA         upon
             eligibility in their first year of employment. The prorated adjustments under this
             paragraph will be effective the first (1st) pay period of the month following the
             date of eligibility. New employees must meet requirements for eligibility in
             paragraphs (C) and (D) to receive continued HSA/HRA-VEBA contributions in
             subsequent years.

      (G)    The HSA/HRA-VEBA amount will also be adjusted and prorated for employees
             moving from Employee to Employee + Other enrollment during the yearif the
             employee met LWHRA eligibility requirements under paragraph (1)(4) for the
             Employee only contribution. The prorated amounts under this paragraph will be
             effective the first (1°) pay period of the month following enrollment as Employee
             + Other.

      (H)    Under the Co-Pay plan, the co-pay for professional services is thirty-five dollars
             ($35) per co-pay/visit.

      ()     All employees will contribute the following toward their elected healthcare plan:

             (1) For all employees who elect the HDHP, the employee’s monthly contribution
                 is as follows: Employee Only or Employee + Other = twenty dollars ($20).

             (2) For all employees who elect the Plus Plan, the employee’s monthly
                 contribution is as follows: Employee Only = thirty dollars ($30); Employee +
                 Other = fifty dollars ($50).

             (3) For all employees who elect the Co-Pay Plan, the employee’s monthly
                 contribution is as follows: Employee Only = fifty dollars ($50); Employee +
                 Other = seventy dollars ($70).

             (4) For employees who complete the annual “Live Well” Health Risk Assessment
                 (LWHRA), which includes a biometric screening, health history and risk
                 assessment questionnaire and comprehensive health review, offered by the
 MOU AFG-25-21/AFN-25-06 continued


                     COUNTY, the COUNTY will provide a monthly “Live Well” credit of twenty
                     dollars ($20) to the employee's health contribution cost.

    3.     All other provisions under the 2024-2027 CBA remain. This agreement in no way sets a
           precedent for future agreements.

    4.   The parties agree to memorialize this agreement during successor negotiations in 2027.

    5.   This agreement shall be effective following signatures of all parties.




    For the UNION:                                      For the COUNTY:




    Sah      Lanius, Council Representative             IngaWood, Labor Relations Manager


         ufos
    Date




ren         Tipton, President~                      Bieve Mokrohisky, County Administrato

     fi-Zb- ZS                                          pedis
    Date                                                 ate
