                                 MEMORANDUM         OF UNDERSTANDING

                                     Demotion Probationary Period
                                  MOU AFG-24-06/AFN-24-01/AFP-24-01

This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into, by and between Lane County hereinafter referred to
as COUNTY, and the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME), Local
2831-General,   Nurses and Physicians Units, hereinafter referred to as UNION, for the purposes of
establishing a probationary period for employees who accept a voluntary demotion.

It is hereby agreed that:

    1.   In accordance with the 2021-2024 General Unit Collective Bargaining Agreement definition of
         demotion the COUNTY and UNION agree to modify Article 8, Section 9 — Probationary Period as
         follows:

            (C) Employees hired on or before December 31, 2021 shall serve an initial probationary
                period of six (6) continuous months worked. Effective January 1, 2022, new bargaining
                unit employees shall serve an initial probationary period of twelve (12) continuous months
                worked. Employees failing to receive a successful or better evaluation rating on their
                probationary review may have their probationary period extended for a period not to
                exceed ninety (90) days with the consent of the UNION. During such extension, the
                employee shall be entitled to all benefits under thls Agreement except that they may not
                grieve termination of employment.

            (D) Employees who are transferred from one position to another but do not change
                classification or employees who are reclassified shall not serve a new probationary period.

            {B\(E)      Non-probationary employees who voluntarily demote to another classification shall
                serve a new probationary period of six (6) months in the new classification and receive a
                new merit eligibility date effective on the day the demotion   becomes   effective, unless they
                are demoting to a classification they have previously held and successfully completed the
                probationary period.


            {E\(F)        Employees who are promoted to another classification shall serve a new
                 probationary period of six (6) continuous months worked in the new classification. Such
                 employees who fail, as determined by the COUNTY, to satisfactorily meet the requirement
                 of the new position or classification, at any time during the probationary period, shall be
                 returned to the previously held position or classification in the former department provided
                 the employee completed the initial probationary period prior to the promotion. Employees
                 rejected in probation shall not be eligible to compete for a position in the same
                 classification under the same work unit for a period of one (1) year.

            {F}(G)       Any probationary employee not notified of performance deficiencies noted during
                the first one-half (1/2) of the probationary period may assume such performance has been
                acceptable to date. It is understood that such performance does not presume continued
MOU AFG-24-06/AFN-24-01/AFP-24-01 (continued)


               employment for the balance of the probationary period.

   2.   In accordance with the 2021-2024 Nurses Unit Collective Bargaining Agreement definition of
        demotion the COUNY     and UNION    agree to modify Article 8, Section 8 — Probationary Period as
        follows:
            (D) Employees who are transferred from one position to another but do not change
                 classification, or employees who are reclassified, shall not serve a new probationary
                 period.

           (B\(E)     Non-probationary employees who voluntarily demote to another classification shall
               serve a new probationary period of six (6) months in the new classification and receive a
               new merit eligibility date effective on the day the demotion becomes effective, unless they
               are demotingto a classification they have previously held and successfully completed the
               probationary period.


           {E\(F)       Employees who are transferred or promoted to another classification shall serve a
                new probationary period of six (6) continuous months worked in the new classification.
                Such employees, who fail, as determined by the COUNTY, to satisfactorily meet the
                requirement of the new position or classification, at any time during the probationary
                period, shall be returned to the previously held position or classification in the former
                department, provided the employee completed the initial probationary period prior to the
                promotion.

   3.   In accordance with the 2023-2026 Physicians Unit Collective Bargaining Agreement definition of
        demotion the COUNY and UNION agree to modify Article 8, Section 2 — Probationary Period as
        follows:

           (C) New bargaining unit employees employed in classifications represented by the UNION,
               shall serve a probationary period of six (6) continuous months worked in that
               classification. Employees failing to receive a successful or better evaluation rating on their
               probationary review may have their probationary period extended for a period not to
               exceed one hundred eighty (180) days. Notice shall be given to the UNION when a
               bargaining unit employee's probationary period is extended.

            (D) Non-probationary employees who voluntarily demote to another classification shail serve
                a new probationary period of six (6) months in the new classification and receive a new
                merit eligibility date effective on the day the demotion becomes   effective, unless they are
                demoting to a classification they have previously held and successfully completed the
                probationary period.


            {G)(E)     Employees who are transferred or promoted to another classification shall serve a
                new probationary period of six (6) continuous months worked in the new classification.
                Such employees, who fail, as determined by the COUNTY, to satisfactorily meet the
                requirement of the new position or classification, at any time during the probationary
                period, shall be returned to the previously held position or classification in the former
3/15/2024




3/15/24




03/15/2024
