MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
CBA Modification for Merit Adjustments
MOU POA-26-07
This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into, by and between Lane County hereinafter
referred to as COUNTY, and Lane County Peace Officers Association (LCPOA), hereinafter
referred to as ASSOCIATION, for the purposes of modifying contract language for step
advancement related to annual performance evaluations.
The parties agree:
1. The 2025-2028 Collective Bargaining Agreement, Article 7 will be modified as follows:
"7.6 STEP ADVANCEMENT
Each employee shall receive step increases in twelve (12) months intervals, up
through step seven (7) provided that the employee receives at least an overall
"successful" rating on their annual evaluation. In no case shall an employee be
on a step longer than twelve (12) months including in-class transfers, provided
the employee is performing at a "successful" level or higher.
7.7 EMPLOYEE EVALUATIONS
In the event an employee's evaluation is not completed within-thir Hty(30)-calendar
days-ofwhen by the date it is due, the following pay period the employee shall
advance to the next higher step through step 7."
2. The parties agree to memorialize this agreement during successor negotiations in 2028.
3. This agreement shall be effective following signatures of both parties.
For the ASSOCIATION:
For the COUNTY:
AIC for
Inga Wood
un
Eric Churchill, President
IngalWood, Labor Relations Manager
S/23/26
6/1/2026
Date
Date
Wauews tur
Carl Wilkerson, Sheriff
os2g/ze
Date
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Holiday/Personal Time Accumulation Maximum
POA-26-09
This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into, by and between Lane County hereinafter
referred to as COUNTY, and Lane County Peace Officers Association (LCPOA), hereinafter
referred to as ASSOCIATION, for the purposes of modifying the 2025-2028 Collective
Bargaining Agreement (CBA) to increase the maximum accumulation of holiday/personal time.
The parties agree:
1. The accumulation rate under Article 10.1 and mutually agreed scheduling limit under
Article 10.2 were modified during the last successor negotiations. Historically, the limit
under Article 10.2 has been eight (8) hours less than the maximum accumulation under
Article 10.3. The accumulation maximum in Article 10.3 was not adjusted in the last
successor negotiations.
2. To continue the historical practice, Article 10.3 will be modified as follows:
"MAXIMUM ACCUMULATION OF HOLIDAY/PERSONAL TIME
An employee may accumulate up to a maximum of one hundred four twelve (104112)
hours if arrangements cannot be made to allow the employee to take holiday
time/personal time off, and if the employee is unable to take holiday/personal time off
due to COUNTY requirements, the employee may receive paid compensation at one
and one half (1:1.5) times the applicable straight time rate in lieu of future accumulations
beyond one hundred four twelve (104112) hours until such time as accommodations can
be made to allow time off."
3. Nothing in this agreement shall be construed as creating any precedent between parties
in any other matters, arbitration proceedings, administrative proceedings or other legal
proceedings involving the COUNTY and the ASSOCIATION.
4. The parties agree to memorialize this agreement during successor negotiations in 2028.
5. This agreement shall be effective following signatures of both parties.
For the ASSOÇIATION
For the COUNTY:
EricChurchill, President
Ingawood, Labor Relations Manager
71 -
7/16/2026
Date
Date
- Waunsn bur
Carl Wilkerson, Sheriff
o/16/26
Date