                                     MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
                                    CBA Modification for Merit Adjustments
                                               MOU PPO-26-01

This Memorandum of Understanding is entered into, by and between Lane County hereinafter referred to as
COUNTY, and the Federation of Oregon Parole and Probation Officers, Parole & Probation Unit (FOPPO),
hereinafter referred to as UNION, for the purposes of modifying contract language for step advancement
related to annual performance evaluations.
The parties agree:

   1.   The 2024-2027 Collective Bargaining Agreement, Article 10 will be modified as follows:

        “Section 2.       Steps in Compensation Plan

          (A) The compensation plan shall be based on a Step schedule with the steps being equally spaced
              between the low and high ends of the salary range for each classification.

        (B) Employees hired at Step 1 of the compensation plan shall advance to Step 2 upon the completion
            of twelve (12) months of employment with the COUNTY. Step increases shall occur at twelve (12)
            month intervals unless the employee receives “needs improvement” or lower rating on their
            performance evaluation. If an evaluation has not been submitted by the anniversary (“merit") date,
            the employee will advance to the next higher step.

        (C) Employees who are denied a step increase must be notified in writing prior to the scheduled date of
            the increase. The notice must identify the areas of deficiency. Employees will be given the
             opportunity to sign the notice. Employees who are denied a step increase may utilize the
             Administrative Procedures Manual (APM) evaluation appeal process. The only permissible claim of
             contract violation is a management rights violation because the performance deficiency is alleged to
             be unsubstantiated or the denial is alleged to be inequitable.




   2.   The parties agree to memorialize this agreement during successor negotiations in 2027.

   3.   This agreement shall be effective following signatures of both parties.



        Rath                                           we he Weak
   For the       UNION:                                Forthe COUNTY:


   Rick Pokorny, President                            ing          , Labor Relations Manager
        SACU                                                5/ \z/2oU
   Date                                               Date

                                                            A        AER          WU
                                                      Greg Rikhbff, Assistant County Administrator

                                                        J    f/izj[w7e
                                                      Dat
