                                       2021-2025
                            COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT


                                        BETWEEN
                       THE DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES,
                           ON BEHALF OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                                          AND
            THE AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES
                            CHILD CARE PROVIDERS TOGETHER




As a result of ORS 657A.430 (SB 788) Representation of Certified and Registered Family
Child Care Providers
                                                         TABLE OF CONTENTS
................................................................................................................................................... 1
PREAMBLE................................................................................................................................. 1
ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION ...................................................................................................... 2
ARTICLE 2 - UNION RIGHTS ..................................................................................................... 3
ARTICLE 4 - EDUCATION AND TRAINING ................................................................................. 6
ARTICLE 5 – SUBSIDY RATES AND PAYMENT PROCESSES ..................................................... 10
ARTICLE 6 - PROVIDER RECORDS AND COMPLAINTS............................................................ 12
ARTICLE 7- CRIMINAL HISTORY ............................................................................................ 15
ARTICLE 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCESS ........................................................................................ 16
ARTICLE 9 - LEGISLATIVE ACTION ........................................................................................ 19
ARTICLE 10 - LAWS AND REGULATIONS ................................................................................ 20
ARTICLE 11 - COMPLETE AGREEMENT ................................................................................. 21
ARTICLE 13 - UNION ACTIVITY .............................................................................................. 22
ARTICLE 14 - TERM OF AGREEMENT ..................................................................................... 23
ARTICLE 15 – TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE................................................................................. 25
ARTICLE 16 – PAYMENT ACCURACY AND OVERPAYMENTS ................................................. 26
ARTICLE 19 – STATE RIGHTS ................................................................................................. 28
ARTICLE 21– MARKET PRICE STUDY ................................................................................. 29
ARTICLE 22– ADMINISTRATIVE RULES .............................................................................. 30
LETTER OF AGREEMENT ............................................................................................... 31
LETTER OF AGREEMENT – HEALTH CARE EXPLORATORY COMMITTEE... 32
LETTER OF AGREEMENT – TELEHEALTH BENEFIT FUND ................................ 33
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - STANDING RETIREMENT BENEFITS JOINT
COMMITTEE ....................................................................................................................... 36
LETTER OF AGREEMENT - STATE ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE (NEW) ......... 38
LETTER OF AGREEMENT – HEALTH BENEFITS STANDING JOINT LABOR
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE ........................................................................................ 39
APPENDIX A- FAMILY CHILD CARE PROVIDER BILL OF RIGHTS...................................... 40
APPENDIX B – PAYMENT SCHEDULE .................................................................................. 42
SIGNATURE PAGE ............................................................................................................. 43
..........................................................................................................................................................
2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care                                                                                         Collective Bargaining Agreement
                                                              PREAMBLE


This Agreement is made and entered into at Salem, Oregon, pursuant to the provisions of the
Oregon Revised Statutes, by and between the State of Oregon, hereinafter referred to as the
STATE, through the Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS), Oregon Department of
Education (ODE), Early Learning Division (ELD), and the Oregon Department of Administrative
Services (DAS) hereinafter known as AGENCIES and the American Federation of State, County
& Municipal Employees/Oregon Child Care Providers Together, hereinafter referred to as the
UNION.


It is the purpose of this Agreement to achieve and maintain harmonious relations between the
STATE and the UNION, to provide for equitable and peaceful adjustments of differences which
may arise.


The Parties share a mutual understanding that child care providers are professionals who are
essential to the development, education, and well-being of children. In all dealings with Union
and providers, Agencies shall:


                  Start from an assumption that providers are well intentioned and doing the best they
                   can with the information they have.
                  Maintain a positive attitude in dealing with providers.
                  Take time to listen to and understand providers’ needs.
                  Offer support, assistance, and encouragement.
                  Use authority within legal parameters, carefully and with thought.
                  Promote statewide consistency that is flexible enough to meet individual situations
                   without compromising the rules.


The Parties understand that the key to a successful system of childhood care and education is a
strong, balanced infrastructure that addresses safety, quality, accessibility, and affordability.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                           1
                                                 ARTICLE 1 - RECOGNITION


Section 1.
The State recognizes the Union as the sole and exclusive agent representing all certified and
registered family child care providers pursuant to ORS 657A.430(6)(a).


Section 2.
This Agreement is between the State of Oregon acting by and through the Department of
Administrative Services (State) and the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees (AFSCME) Child Care Providers Together on behalf of the Certified and Registered
Family Child Care Providers pursuant to ORS 657A.430(6)(a) in Oregon.


Section 3.
There is intended to be no overlap among this population of child care providers and the
population of child care providers covered in ORS 657A.430(6)(b) that refers to license-exempt
family care providers. Should any license-exempt family child care provider become certified or
registered, AFSCME will be recognized as the sole and exclusive agent for that provider for
purposes of this Agreement.
                                                                                       REV: 2021




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                    2
                                                ARTICLE 2 - UNION RIGHTS


Section 1. Dues
a.       Dues.
         ODHS agrees to deduct the monthly membership dues plus any additional voluntary union
         deductions from the subsidy payment(s) of those providers who individually request such
         deductions in writing. The amount to be deducted shall be certified to ODHS by the
         Treasurer of the Union, and the aggregate deductions shall be remitted no less frequently
         than monthly. ODHS will provide an itemized statement, which will be sent to the Council
         75 office.


         The itemized statement shall include:
                   Union ID
                   Title: Dues paid information as of
                   Date: MM/DD/CCYY
                   Provider #
                   Provider name
                   Authorization begin date
                   Authorization end date
                   Union deduction amount
                   Union deduction type
                   Amount pay claim
                   Claim number
                   Volunteer deduction flag
                   Total amount per deduction type


b.       Maintenance of Membership.
         Providers who are members of the Union shall be recognized by the State for the duration
         of this Agreement unless formally notified by the Union of a change in status. A change in
         address, name or license type (certified family or registered family) shall not affect
         membership status.


2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                       3
c.       Dues Deduction.
         The Union may rely on written, electronic or recorded telephonic message authorization
         from the Provider as verification that Provider has authorized monthly Union dues plus any
         additional voluntary deductions. For each Union Member, ODHS will process no more
         than one (1) month’s monthly membership dues plus any additional voluntary monthly
         union deductions from the ODHS Child Care Subsidy payments to providers for each billing
         month/period. Any monies owed the Union, by a Member and under the circumstances
         cited immediately above, shall be the responsibility of the Union to recoup.


d.       Indemnification Provision.
         Union shall indemnify and hold the State and Agencies harmless against any and all
         claims, damages, suits or other forms of liability which may arise out of any action taken or
         not taken by the State and Agencies for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
         this section.


e.       Unique Identification.
         ODHS will assign a unique provider identification number to each Provider. These unique
         identification numbers will not be used more than once and will not be transferred or
         reassigned to a new or different Provider regardless of whether a provider has purchased,
         licensed or otherwise assumed responsibility or legal authority of the same program as
         another Provider.


Section 2. Information and Provider Lists. Agencies will provide updated provider lists to
Union as requested but not more frequently than monthly. Union will request the information using
standard agency forms. Agencies will provide the lists at no charge to Union unless the requests
require additional staff time to prepare. The charge will reflect actual staff time required to prepare
the list.


Section 3. Notices. The Agencies will email the Union copies of each mass mailing sent to
AFSCME represented family child care providers. In addition, the Agency will send legislative
reports and updated or revised Agency forms.


2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                           4
         a. The Union will be sent notices via email in each of the languages being sent out. In
              addition, copies of mass mailings to all providers within an Agency region or to all
              providers in the case load of a Licensing Specialist will be provided via email to the
              Union.
         b. Prior to finalizing mass mailings to Providers, Agencies will make efforts to send drafts
              of mass mailings to the Union to seek Union feedback on messaging, unless
              communications are time sensitive.
         c. The Union shall make itself available to provide feedback for clarity of messaging on
              mass communications within two (2) business days of receipt of any document.
         d. The email address to be used for the Union for notices required by this paragraph is:
              childcare@oregonafscme.org.


Section 4. Continued Meetings. The State and affected Agency, as appropriate, and Union will
meet on a quarterly basis or sooner, if necessary, to discuss matters of mutual concern between
the parties. These subject matters may include, but are not limited to, Provider and Child Safety,
CACFP, Market Price Study and Monitoring and Emergencies. These meetings will not be utilized
for contract negotiations between the parties or as any formal step meeting outlined in Article 8 –
Grievance Process. These meetings shall be held at a time that is convenient for both parties to
attend. Should the Union and State agree no meeting is necessary, it shall be cancelled.
                                                                                         REV: 2017, 2021




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                            5
                                       ARTICLE 4 - EDUCATION AND TRAINING


Section 1.
Union and Agencies both recognize the importance of education and training in relation to the
continuity and quality of child care. Research documents a relationship between a trained and
stable child care workforce and positive child care outcomes. Providers who receive training are
better equipped to provide long term quality child care. Providers who have adequate background
to be a trainer are encouraged to access the Professional Development System to become
recognized trainers.


Section 2.
The Union will form a training committee to work on training issues. Recommendations approved
by Union’s Executive Board shall be presented to designated staff of the Early Learning Division
(ELD) for response and/or action. Agencies will pay for up to two (2) Union represented providers
to participate as members of Early Learning Council (ELC) committees (substitute care and
mileage).       The Providers who attend shall be chosen by the Union. The State Agencies shall
provide reasonable notice to the Union of scheduled EDC committee meetings.


After attending a ELC committee meetings, providers will submit a paid invoice for the substitute
care with a ELD reimbursement form. ELD will pay the provider within thirty (30) calendar days
of receiving the required paperwork. Substitute care cost shall be actual cost, not to exceed sixty
dollars ($60) for one half day or one hundred and twenty dollars ($120) for a full day, and up to
five (5) hours transportation time. Mileage allowance shall not exceed the State approved mileage
reimbursement rate.


Section 3.
Upon Union request, Agencies shall provide representatives when available to attend Union
committee meetings to hear concerns.


Section 4.
If provided by the Union, copies of Union materials shall be included with the materials handed
out or provided electronically to all participants at OCC Introduction to Registered Family Child
2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                       6
Care Part 2 (IRF Part 2) sessions. In addition, Union provided materials shall be included in ELD
family child care licensing renewal packets. For licensing renewal packets, the Union agrees to
contact the designated ELD staff to determine supply needs. Union materials can include but are
not limited to a family child care provider Union interest card, contact information for Union staff
and leader members, and up to two (2) handouts printed on both sides. Union materials shall be
provided by the Union at no cost to the State. These materials cannot contain any materials
related to political activity. Political activity, for the purposes of this section, is activity to elect or
defeat any candidate, political party or ballot issue.


Section 5.
At the end of the OCC IRF Part 2, the Union may make up to a fifteen (15)-minute presentation
about the organization, representational status, and Union benefits; and may distribute and collect
Union membership applications at the conclusion of the OCC IRF Part 2. The schedule for OCC
IRF Part 2 shall be posted on the Oregon Registry Online (ORO). The Union will be responsible
for the content of their presentation, including the option to collaborate with SEIU for a joint Union
presentation. Whenever possible, the Union will provide a ten (10) day notice that they plan to
attend an OCC IRF Part 2. Whenever possible the Agencies will provide a two (2) day notice of
cancelation of OCC IRF Part 2.


Section 6.
Agencies will disseminate current information about available training opportunities via a link to
the Oregon Registry Online (ORO). For registration purposes, the ORO calendar will provide the
phone number(s) for Providers to sign up for orientation or training. Providers may register by
phone or on-line when it is made available.


Section 7.
Should additional training funds become available, Agencies will notify the Union within thirty (30)
days of the funds becoming available. The Agency and the Union shall meet within ninety (90)
days after notification to work together to establish a training fund to assist Providers with payment
of:
         a.        Class fees and required materials



2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                                7
         b.        Mileage reimbursement for approved training


         c.        Payment for substitute care of child care children and/or child care expenses for
                    provider/helper’s own children


Section 8.
The Agencies will make First Aid and Infant/Child CPR training, and repeat training of Recognizing
and Reporting Child Abuse and Neglect, available to certified and registered Providers at no cost.


         a.        Providers may complete this training through the Resource and Referral system at
                    no cost, or may seek reimbursement for costs related to successfully completing
                    this training by a certified trainer. Providers will be reimbursed up to the amount
                    paid to the R&R for this training. Providers must submit a receipt and certificate of
                    successful completion.


Section 9. Professional Development Fund
A.       The State agrees to allocate one-time funding of Seven Hundred Thousand Dollars
         ($700,000) dollars for the purpose of professional development opportunities for AFSCME
         bargaining unit members.


B.       Funds will be used for Professional Development Opportunities for AFSCME Bargaining
         Unit Members who attend or participate in any of the following during the term of this
         Agreement:
         1.        College coursework at an accredited college
         2.        Oregon Registry Trainer Program
                  i.         Set 2 or Set 3 training
                 ii.         Early Childhood Care and Education Conferences
         3.        Registration fees for conferences provided by the National Association for the
                    Education of Young Children (NAEYC) or National Association for Family Child Care
                       (NAFCC) and their state affiliates
         4.        NAFCC Accreditation and Membership Fees
         5.        Child Development Associate (CDA) Exams

2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                             8
         6.        Funds may also be used for the full cost of the ORIMHA endorsement for Infant
                   Family Associate or Specialist provided that the training dollars does not cover the
                   cost of the annual membership fee beyond their first (1st) year of application.


C.       Reimbursements made during the contract period are only for those courses taken during
         the contract period.


D.       Funds will be available to all Providers in the Bargaining Unit until such times as the funds
         are exhausted or the contract period ends, whichever occurs first. There will be no
         guarantee of the maximum funds being available to any specific provider. An Ad Hoc work
         group comprised of members from OCCD, the OCC and the Union will establish guidelines
         for participation.


E.       Funds will be available by September 1, 2021 or upon ratification of this Agreement,
         whichever is later.


F.       Reimbursement forms will be made available in the various languages as provided in
         Article 6, Section 2 of the Agreement. Links to these forms will be made available through
         the State.


G.       There will be no limit placed on the total amount or number of awards any individual
         Bargaining Unit Member may receive, but OCCD will consult the Ad Hoc Committee for
         authorization of any single application for an award in excess of five hundred dollars ($500)
         that is not specifically identified above.

H.       Administrative expenses associated with the administration of the Professional
         Development Fund are paid separately and by the State.


I.       Individual Bargaining Unit Members will be eligible to receive funds as reimbursement
         and/or vouchers. Due to OCCD operations, vouchers shall be the preferred method for
         payments to Sponsoring Organizations for cohorts, classes, conferences, etc. Should a
         provider be unable to use a voucher, reimbursements shall be made.
                                                                                             REV: 2017, 2019

2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                                9
                         ARTICLE 5 – SUBSIDY RATES AND PAYMENT PROCESSES


Section 1.
Effective January 1, 2024, the ODHS child care subsidy rates paid to licensed providers will be
as set forth in Appendix B.


Section 2.
ODHS will maintain billing forms processing time of three (3) to four (4) business days. Business
days is defined as Monday through Friday between 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM.


For purposes of this Section, processing time is defined as follows:
         1)        The first day of “processing time” of the billing form for payment begins at 8:00 AM
                   on the first full business day after the billing form is received by the Direct Pay Unit
                   (DPU).
         2)        For example: If the billing form is received at 7:59 AM on Monday, the first day of
                   processing is Monday. If the billing form is received at 8:00 AM on Monday, the first
                   day of processing is Tuesday.
         3)        The last day of “processing time” is the date the check is cut/issued, or the direct
                   deposit (ACH) is initiated.


Section 3.
ODHS will maintain the improvements to the Child Care payment process by:
         a.        Issuing billing forms in advance of care being provided.
         b.        Ensuring that once a billing form is issued, the form will not be cancelled and
                   reissued in a lesser amount without permission from the provider.
         c.        ODHS will send a notice to a connected provider within two (2) business days of the
                   system action being taken to discontinue the case advising the provider that the
                   Employment Related Day Care (ERDC) case is closing.
         d.        Providers shall be able to use email, fax and mail to submit their billing forms and
                   other documents. Should an automated system become available, that form will
                   offer an additional way to submit documents and information to the system.



2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                              10
         e.        The State shall mail to each listed Provider a copy of any revised and/or updated
                   versions of the Provider Guide. The State shall include a printed copy of the most
                   current published copy of the Provider Guide to each Provider newly listed.


Section 4. Direct Deposit.
ODHS will maintain offering direct deposit for subsidy payments. Providers will need to request
implementation of direct deposit. The payment system does not include direct deposit of special
checks.


Section 5.
Agencies will work to maintain alignment of definitions of infant, preschool, school age and special
needs children. ODHS infant subsidy rate shall be paid for eligible children up to age twenty-four
(24) months.


Section 6.
ODHS agrees to research a system for Provider’s to notify ODHS in a timelier manner that a
parent’s co-pay was not paid.


Section 7.
Providers may bill ODHS for Absent Days pursuant to the criteria currently outlined in Rules.


Section 8.
The State will collect feedback on initial development of information technology systems that will
be used by providers for child care licensing or subsidy reimbursements in the event a new system
is developed.


Section 9.
Providers and the Union will be given the opportunity to provide input and feedback on the Market
Price Study to the researchers responsible for conducting the study.


                                                                                   REV: 2017,2019, 2021,2023




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                               11
                             ARTICLE 6 - PROVIDER RECORDS AND COMPLAINTS


Section 1.
Union will receive electronic copies of the Agencies’ manuals and annotated rules. Agencies will
provide electronic updates to the manuals and updates to the annotated rules within ten (10)
business days after the update is made.                       Union will receive notice of Agencies’ proposed
rulemaking. Agencies will provide the Union and bargaining unit members with electronic or
printed copy of the most current Provider Guide free of charge and upon request.


Section 2.
If five percent (5%) of the population in the county or five percent (5%) of the eligible provider
population in the county are limited English proficiency speakers, the agencies will translate the
State’s mandatory training materials and critical OCC documents to languages meeting either of
the five percent (5%) thresholds. ODHS will also translate the Provider Guide, including a sample
translated Billing Form, Provider Suspension letter/Failed Status letter and Provider Listing Form
in the languages meeting either of the five percent (5%) thresholds. Currently, the languages
meeting these criteria include Spanish, Russian, Vietnamese, and Chinese. Agency designated
translation services will be utilized for verbal communication needs. Agencies will communicate
critical information to bargaining unit members in languages as outlined above. ODHS and ELD
shall ensure Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Reasonable Accommodations are available
for providers upon request.


Section 3.
OCC will provide copies of public materials in providers’ files to the provider and the Union upon
written request from the provider and the Union within twenty-one (21) days, unless not in
conformance with administrative procedures governing public record request following receipt of
the request. OCC records and retains in a provider’s file information related to compliance with
child care rules. The provider receives a copy of the compliance determination at the time of the
determination or when the record is placed in the provider’s file. Provider is given an opportunity
to respond to the compliance determinations in writing to OCC. Providers may submit a rebuttal
within one hundred and eighty (180) days on the electronic file referenced in (d) below.


2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                                12
         a.        OCC has a practice under which an observed noncompliance that is immediately
                   correctable and does not involve serious health and safety violations may not be
                   recorded as valid.


         b.        OCC will actively encourage callers making complaints to provide identifying
                   information.


         c.        Compliance history postings to the safety portal and when a telephone inquiry is
                   made to OCC about a provider’s compliance history, complaints determined to be
                   valid will be shared with the caller/on the safety portal for ten (10) years after the
                   complaint investigation. Complaints determined to be unable to substantiate will be
                   shared with the caller/on the safety portal for two (2) years after the complaint
                   investigation. Complaints determined to be invalid will not be shared with the caller
                   and will not be shared on the safety portal.

                   1.        The Office of Child Care will provide a clear description of what the definition
                             of Unable to Substantiate is, including a disclaimer that a complaint does not
                             imply the allegation(s) is/are valid.


                   2.        The Office of Child Care agrees to continue to meet and confer with the Union
                             on further improvements to the child care safety portal and complaint
                             investigations processes.


                   3.        Written documentation of the complaint will be entered on a standard form.


                   d.        Electronic complaint records are on the file from January 1, 2004. For a more
                             complete history, the Office of Child Care encourages individuals to contact
                             the Office of Child Care.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                                13
Section 4.
Agency staff, appropriate to the specific concern and who have knowledge of a provider complaint
or dispute shall provide guidance, education, resources and information to providers in support of
resolving the complaint or dispute.
                                                                                      REV: 2017, 2019




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                        14
                                             ARTICLE 7- CRIMINAL HISTORY


Section 1.
Agencies will work together to accept background checks performed by either Agency and will
explore improved access to fingerprint services.


Section 2.
Agencies and the Union shall, as part of the quarterly meeting, review and discuss the concerns
and issues regarding the current practice(s) that exist when a Provider or Staff is going through
the CBC/CBR enrollment process.
                                                                                     REV: 2019, 2021




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                       15
                                          ARTICLE 8 - GRIEVANCE PROCESS


Section 1. Grievance Definitions.
Grievances are defined as acts, omissions, applications, or interpretations alleged to be violations
of the terms and conditions of this Collective Bargaining Agreement.


Section 2. Informal Resolution Approach.
The Agencies encourage, whenever possible, the informal resolution approach between the
Provider and Agencies over the application of the terms and conditions of the Collective
Bargaining Agreement that are within their authority to administer.


Section 3. Information Requests.
Information requests concerning potential grievances or grievances shall be relevant to the
grievance investigation. Requests for information by the Union shall be sent to the designated
State Labor Relations Manager at the Department of Administrative Services, or designee. The
State or Union will provide the information, to which the requesting party is lawfully entitled, in a
timely manner.


Section 4. Grievance Timeline and Steps.
Grievances shall be filed within thirty (30) calendar days of the date the grievant or the Union
knows or by reasonable diligence should have known of the alleged grievance. Once filed, the
Union shall not expand upon the original elements and substance of the written grievance.


Grievances shall be reduced to writing on the AFSCME Grievance Form, stating the Specific
Article(s) alleged to have been violated, a clear explanation of the alleged violation, and the
requested remedy. Grievances shall be processed in the following manner:


         Step 1.        The Agency Program Manager (or designee) or union designee will review the
                        grievance and within twenty-one (21) calendar days of receipt, attempt to resolve
                        it to the satisfaction of the Parties. A good faith attempt will be made to convene
                        a phone call so that Parties can discuss the issues before a decision is rendered.


2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                              16
         Step 2.        No grievance may be processed under this Step which has not first been filed
                        and investigated in accordance with Step 1 above. If the response at Step 1
                        does not resolve the grievance or no response is received within the twenty-one
                        (21) calendar days, the Union will submit the grievance to mediation through the
                        Employment Relations Board (ERB) mediation process.


                        a.        The primary effort of the mediator shall be to assist the parties in settling
                                  the stated grievance in a mutually satisfactory fashion. In attempting to
                                  achieve a settlement, the mediator is free to use all of the techniques
                                  customarily associated with the mediation process, including private
                                  conferences with only one (1) party.


                        b.        Each Party shall bear the cost of its own presentation at Step 2, including
                                  preparation and post-hearing briefs, if any.


                        c.        The Parties shall split the ERB filing frees. Neither party will request
                                  representation costs or civil penalties.


         Step 3.        If the grievance is not resolved at Step 1, a Notice of Appeal to arbitration may
                        be filed in writing with the Agency Program Manager within fifteen (15) calendar
                        days from the date the Step 1 response was due or received, whichever is
                        earlier. At the same time Notice of Appeal is issued a written request to the
                        Employment Relations Board (ERB) for a list of seven (7) qualified arbitrators
                        shall submitted. The Notice of Appeal shall include the formal written grievance
                        and any related information.


                        Selection of Arbitrator. Upon receipt of the list of seven (7) qualified arbitrators
                        from the ERB, the Union shall meet with the Agency to select the arbitrator. The
                        Parties will select one (1) arbitrator from the list by alternately striking names,
                        with the Union striking first, one (1) name at a time until one (1) name remains
                        on the list. The name remaining on the list shall be accepted by the Parties as
                        the arbitrator.

2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                                  17
Section 5. Binding Arbitration.
The Parties agree that the decision or award of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on each of
the Parties and that they will abide thereby. The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to,
subtract from or change any of the terms of this Agreement.


Section 6. Arbitration Fees.
The arbitrator’s fee and expenses shall be paid by the losing Party. If, in the opinion of the
arbitrator, neither Party can be considered the losing Party, then such expenses shall be
apportioned as in the arbitrator’s judgment is equitable. All other expenses shall be borne
exclusively by the Party requiring the service or item for which payment is to be made.


Section 7. Time Limits.
The time limits specified in this Article shall be strictly observed, unless either Party requests a
specific extension of time, which, if agreed to, must be stipulated in writing and shall become part
of the grievance record. “Filed” for purposes of all steps shall mean date of receipt by mail, by
hand deliver, by facsimile (fax), or as otherwise agreed to by Agency, or designee, and the Union.
If the Agency fails to issue a response within the time limits, the grievance shall advance to the
next step unless withdrawn by the Union. If the Union fails to meet the specified time limits, the
grievance shall be considered withdrawn and cannot be resubmitted.


Section 8. Employer Not Responsible for Grievance Time.
Agency is not responsible for any compensation of Provider or their representative for time spent
investigating or processing grievances nor any travel or subsistence expenses incurred by a
grievant or Union Steward in the investigation or processing of grievance.
                                                                                           REV: 2023




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                       18
                                           ARTICLE 9 - LEGISLATIVE ACTION


Section 1.
Provisions of this Agreement not requiring legislative funding or statutory changes before such
provisions can be put into effect, shall be implemented on the effective date of this Agreement
unless otherwise specified herein.


Section 2.
Any provisions expressly requiring legislative funding or statutory changes shall not become
effective until the appropriate legislative body has given approval.


Section 3.
Should the Legislative Assembly or the Emergency Board fail to enact or adopt matters submitted
to them under the preceding section, then the State shall immediately meet with Union and agree
on modifications or substitutions for the affected portion or portions of this Agreement.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                  19
                                       ARTICLE 10 - LAWS AND REGULATIONS


This Agreement is subject to all applicable existing and future state and federal laws and
regulations.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                             20
                                        ARTICLE 11 - COMPLETE AGREEMENT


Section 1.
This Agreement is the full and complete Agreement between the State and Union resulting from
negotiations held pursuant to ORS 657A.430. It is acknowledged that, during negotiations which
resulted in this Agreement, each and all had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands
and proposals with respect to any subject or matter appropriate for these negotiations, and that
the understandings and agreements arrived at by the Parties after the exercise of that right and
opportunity are set forth in this agreement.


Section 2.
This Agreement supersedes all prior written agreements.


Section 3.
In the event any provision of this Agreement is declared invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, then only such portion or portions shall become null and void and the balance of the
Agreement remain in effect. The State and Union agree to immediately meet and agree upon a
substitute for the portion or portions of the Agreement so affected and to bring it into conformance
therewith not over sixty (60) days after notification unless extended by mutual agreement.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                       21
                                              ARTICLE 13 - UNION ACTIVITY


Section 1.
The State agrees that no provider, on account of membership or non-membership, shall be
discriminated against, intimidated, restrained or coerced in or on account of the exercise of rights
granted by the collective bargaining agreement or in protected activities on behalf of the Union.


Section 2.
The State agrees that protected Union activity conducted by the providers during child care hours
will not constitute other work.


Section 3.
Such rights and protected Union activities shall not interfere with, jeopardize or violate rules and
regulations with respect to the safety and welfare of the children in the care of the provider.
Protected Union activities may include, but not be limited to attending child care
meetings/trainings and bargaining with the State.


Section 4. Union Stewards.
The Union shall notify the State of the selection of Stewards. Stewards may discuss complaints
and grievances of Providers in the bargaining unit. The Parties agree there shall be no reprisal,
coercion, intimidation or discrimination against any Steward for conduct in their capacity as an
official of the Union.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                         22
                                         ARTICLE 14 - TERM OF AGREEMENT


This Agreement shall be in effect upon its execution and except as amended or modified, shall
remain in full force and effect until June 30, 2025, except where specifically stated otherwise in
the Agreement.


If one of the Parties desires to modify the Agreement, they shall notify the other Party in writing
no less than one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to the termination of this Agreement of its
desire to negotiate a successor Agreement.


Negotiations shall commence the first (1st) full week of March 2025, or such other date, as may
be mutually agreed to by the Parties. If either party desires to negotiate changes in any Article or
Section of this Collective Bargaining Agreement, it shall provide those desired changes by the
beginning of the second (2nd) negotiation session between the parties.


During the first (1st) meeting, the Parties agree to schedule at least two (2) negotiating dates per
month for April, May, June and July unless mutually agreed upon otherwise, in writing, at that
meeting. The Parties may meet earlier to select dates for negotiations (for the purposes of
PECBA, this meeting will not be considered the first (1st) day of negotiations between the parties).


Either Party may invoke mediation on or after June 30th of 2025 and any subsequent bargaining
session shall include the Mediator on dates mutually agreed to by the Parties and the Mediator.
Thereafter, the time lines and procedures set out in ORS 243.712 and 243.742 shall apply unless
the Parties mutually agree, in writing, otherwise.


If the Parties fail to reach agreement on a new successor Agreement on or before June 30, 2025,
the Agreement shall be automatically extended until a new Agreement is reached or an opinion
and order is promulgated pursuant to ORS 243.746(5).


The Agreement shall be reopened in 2023 for negotiations on Article 5 – Subsidy Rates and
Payment Processes: and up to three (3) additional Articles by each Party, which can be
designated by either or both Parties. No other Articles may be opened for negotiations at that
2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                       23
time unless mutually agreed to, in writing, by the Parties. Any Article or Section of Articles shall
be opened as outlined in the Sections above. Such negotiations shall commence during the first
(1st) full week of March 2023, unless otherwise agreed to, in writing, by the Parties and, thereafter,
the time lines and procedures set out above shall apply.


No opening of this Agreement may take place unless specifically authorized herein or by mutual
Agreement, in writing, by the Parties or by the operation of law.
                                                                                         REV: 2017, 2021




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                           24
                                       ARTICLE 15 – TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE


The State will offer technical assistance, which includes support and consultation, to help
Providers meet State Child Care, requirements. When the Agencies provide technical assistance,
it shall not interfere with the Provider’s right to seek Union representation or grieve any action
related to the Agreement.


Section 1.
Before the State implements revisions to state child care requirements, or significantly reinterprets
current regulations, the State will provide opportunities for providers and the Union to be involved
in the community engagement processes. The State will meet with Union leadership to discuss
revisions and reinterpretations; these meetings will be independent of other engagement
sessions. Means of notification may include, but are not limited to: email, listservs, SSP Steering
Committee, Quarterly Meetings, regular mail, newsletters from the Union, CCR&R or other
Provider groups. The State will also provide technical assistance and guidance to the Union upon
written request.


Section 2.
When contacted by the Union, Agencies and their staff shall respond in a timely manner. An initial
response shall be given within three (3) business days of the receipt of that inquiry. The initial
response shall include at a minimum, an acknowledgement of the receipt of the inquiry and an
estimate for a timeline for response to the issue and advise-as to who may be responsible from
the Agency to respond.


Section 3.
When contacted by a Provider requesting technical assistance, Agencies and their Staff shall
respond in a timely manner but no more than five (5) business days after the initial contact.
                                                                                         REV: 2017, 2021




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                           25
                        ARTICLE 16 – PAYMENT ACCURACY AND OVERPAYMENTS


Section 1. Accurate Payments.
The Agency will work with the Union to increase the accuracy of payments made to providers
including but not limited to the following:


                  will provide materials and information to Providers and the Union in order to increase
                   the submission of accurate billing forms on the part of providers.
                  will review its processes with the Union when issues arise. The Union will request
                   a meeting to discuss the issues in an attempt to resolve the issues.
                  will work with the Union to resolve issues in payment accuracy
                  will make necessary changes in order to minimize errors caused by the agency.


In recognition of the potential for challenges related to any new future attendance, tracking,
payment and billing systems, the State will implement the following:


         a.        Providers will have access to State assistance and guidance on any new attendance
                   and billing system via a toll free number that they can call if experiencing challenges
                   or questions.


         b.        Providers will have access to client computers in local ODHS offices for the purpose
                   of utilizing computer terminals available for the automated billing process. Providers
                   will also be allowed to print a monthly “Provider Report’ from the ODHS office, at no
                   cost to themselves, provided the computer is connected to a printer. If a printer is
                   not available the Provider may request a hard copy of the Provider report from the
                   Direct Pay Unit (DPU).                     ODHS will determine the rules, hours, and process
                   associated with maintaining this access.


         c.        In the event an on-line Child Care billing system is developed, training will be
                   provided prior to the implementation of the system.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                                  26
Section 3. Overpayments.
a.       If an overpayment is made to a provider due to an error on the part of the agency, that
         overpayment will be collected or recouped at no more than five percent (5%) of the
         provider’s subsidy payment until paid in full.


b.       For overpayments not caused by agency error, payment may be collected or recouped in
         full immediately, unless:


                  The overpayment is determined to be caused by provider error,
                  The provider has been providing subsidized care        for twelve (12) consecutive
                   months,
                  The provider has a reasonable financial hardship which impacts the provider’s ability
                   to continue to provide child care, and
                  The provider must have infrequent occurrences of overpayment.


         If all of the above criteria are met, monthly payments will be set at fifty ($50.00) dollars or
         10 percent (10%) of the overpayment amount, whichever is highest, and deducted from
         future subsidy payments.


c.       ODHS will form and conduct a workgroup, to include the Union and stakeholders, to assess
         the need for an intermediary process before collections.
                                                                                            REV: 2017, 2021




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                              27
                                               ARTICLE 19 – STATE RIGHTS


Section 1.
It is understood and agreed by the Parties that the State has core management rights, which
include, but are not limited to the following:
a.       The ultimate right and responsibility to manage its operations in the most efficient manner
         consistent with the best interests of all its citizens and its taxpayers;


b.       Except to the extent modified by this Agreement, the State reserves exclusively all the
         inherent rights and authority to manage and operate its facilities and programs. Economic
         matters shall continue to be mandatory subjects of bargaining between the Parties as
         provided under PECBA;


c.       The quality and quantity of services to be offered to the public;


d.       The means and methods of offering those services;


e.       The right to determine appropriate health and safety and programmatic standards;


Section 2.
This Agreement expressly reserves the State’s right to make programmatic modifications to the
delivery of State services through child care subsidy programs, including funding allocations,
service priorities, and program eligibility standards of eligibility of caretakers and family child care
providers participating in child care subsidy programs and the nature of services provided.


Section 3.
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as to diminish the obligation of the Parties
to discuss and/or negotiate over those subjects appropriate under the law to the extent that the
State has lawful control over those subjects. This specifically includes economic compensation;
such as the manner and rate of subsidy and reimbursement, including tiered reimbursements;
health and welfare benefits, professional development and training; and other economic matters.


2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                           28
                                       ARTICLE 21– MARKET PRICE STUDY

a)       The State and Union will utilize the quarterly meetings, as outlined in Article 2 Section 4 to
         discuss and review the instrument and methodology for the child care market price study
         and other tools or strategies to determine Market Price.


b)       The State will use a third party organization to conduct the market price study of licensed
         family child care providers. Each provider will receive information explaining how the
         CCMPS is completed and how to participate in the survey. Each provider will receive
         notice explaining the market price study and how to access the study results. The State
         and Union will both approve the notice.


c)       The Market Price Study Tool will be conducted in English and Spanish and in the other top
         three (3) languages as funding is available.
                                                                                              NEW: 2017




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                          29
                                      ARTICLE 22– ADMINISTRATIVE RULES


The Early Learning Council is responsible for approving administrative rules governing licensed
child care. The State will engage the Union and multiple stakeholders in rule revision as directed
by the Early Learning Council. Notices of Proposed Emergency, Temporary and Permanent Rule
Making shall be sent in writing to the Union for review using the email address:
childcare@oregonafscme.org, in advance of any public comment period, public hearing or
submission to the ELC. The Union will be added to the Rule Advisory listserv upon formal request.
                                                                                      NEW: 2017, 2021




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                        30
                                              LETTER OF AGREEMENT


This Letter of Agreement (LOA) is entered into between the Department of Administrative
Services (DAS) on behalf of the Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS), the Department
of Education (DOE), and the Early Learning Division, (the “Agencies”) and AFSCME Council 75
(the “Union”) and collectively (the “Parties”).


The purpose of this Agreement is to form a workgroup to develop a guidance document for
Provider responses to the safety portal.


The Parties agree to the following:
         1.        The workgroup shall consist of three (3) Child Care Providers Together Members
                   and three (3) Agency representatives.
         2.        The workgroup shall work collaboratively in designing and developing a guidance
                   document for Providers and link it to the ELD website.
         3.        Agency leadership shall have the opportunity to review and provide feedback before
                   finalizing the guidance document.
Ongoing work on the guidance document for Provider response to the safety portal beyond the
initial workgroup shall be conducted in the Quarterly meetings as needed.


This Agreement shall expire on June 30, 2023, unless extended by mutual agreement.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                        31
   LETTER OF AGREEMENT – HEALTH CARE EXPLORATORY COMMITTEE


This Letter of Agreement (LOA) is entered into between the Department of Administrative
Services (DAS) on behalf of the Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS), the Oregon
Department of Education (ODE), Early Learning Division, (the “Agencies”) and AFSCME Council
75 (the “Union”).


The purpose of this Agreement is to form a workgroup that will explore the feasibility of health
care coverage for child care providers. Subject matter experts may be used to provide information
to the workgroup.


The Parties agree to the following:
    1. The workgroup shall consist of no more than five (5) Union representatives and/or Union
         child care providers and no more than five (5) State representatives.
    2. The workgroup shall meet no later than December 31, 2021.
    3. The workgroup shall meet no more than four (4) times in 2022.
    4. At the conclusion of the last meeting, the workgroup shall write a joint report on the
         feasibility of providing health care coverage for child care providers and submit to State
         leadership by September 30, 2022.


This Agreement shall expire on June 30, 2023, unless extended by mutual agreement.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                      32
                 LETTER OF AGREEMENT – TELEHEALTH BENEFIT FUND


This Letter of Agreement (LOA) is entered into between the Department of Administrative
Services (DAS) on behalf of the Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS), the Oregon
Department of Education (ODE), Early Learning Division, (the “Agencies”), and AFSCME Council
75 (the “Union”), collectively referred to as (the “Parties”).


The State agrees to allocate one-time ARPA funding of Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) for the
purpose of enrolling Providers in a UnitedHealthcare HealthiestYou telehealth subscription. The
telehealth fund is capped at the amount listed above and once this amount is expended, the fund
shall be suspended. The use of these funds are subject to the ARPA guidance and CCDF
requirements.


Effective as of January 1, 2022, or upon ratification of this Agreement, whichever occurs later, all
licensed certified family and registered family child care Providers will be provided the opportunity
to enroll in a HealthiestYou subscription with an associated cost not to exceed two thousand two
hundred dollars ($2,200) per year per Provider, to provide for individual and/or family telehealth
benefits. These benefits will be provided through December 31, 2022 or for twelve (12) months
following the date of ratification should ratification occur after January 1, 2022.


For reporting purposes, the Union will provide the State, on a quarterly basis, an aggregate
number of enrollments and an accounting of funds spent on the HealthiestYou program.


The Union will report and return any unused funds as of December 31, 2022.


The telehealth benefit may be extended beyond December 31, 2022 if the Parties both mutually
agree that the program is successful and additional federal resources are available for the use of
extending the benefit. Should such determinations be made to extend the benefit based on these
parameters, the Parties will meet on or after November 1, 2022, but no later than December 15,
2022, to extend the term of this Letter of Agreement.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                        33
AMENDMENT – APRIL 4, 2022
The Parties have determined to amend this Letter of Agreement to further refine the administration
process for the costs associated with the telehealth benefit as the Union has entered into an
Agreement with healthiest You to provide the benefit to its members.


Accordingly, the Parties agree that the Union and the Early learning Division (ELD) will enter into
a grant agreement which will define a process for reimbursements from ELD to the Union for the
costs associated with the benefit for the members enrolled.


ELD will do a one time upload of all Bargaining Unit Members’ information including Date of Birth
to Healthiest You by April 30th 2022 in order to enroll al Bargaining Unit members into the
Healthiest You telehealth subscription.


AMENDMENT – November 9, 2022
The Parties agree to extend the terms of this Letter of Agreement to include the additional specific
terms as outlined below:
1.       Bargaining unit members will continue to have the cost of their HealthiestYou subscription
         paid for through to and including June 30, 2024.
2.       The enterprise agreement between AFSCME Local 132 and Teladoc Health, Inc. will
         continue through to and including June 30, 2024. Should the Union not end their enterprise
         agreement with Teladoc Health, Inc. effective June 30, 2024, the State will not be
         responsible for the costs of continued enrollments beyond this date.
3.       The Union shall submit all outstanding invoices for reimbursement for monthly
         subscriptions through to and including June 2024 by submission to the Electronic Grant
         Management System (EGMS) no later than August 15, 2024.
4.       All terms and conditions of this Letter of Agreement expire on June 30, 2024.


AMENDMENT – June 24, 2023
The Parties agree to further extend the terms of this Letter of Agreement to June 30, 2025. All




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                       34
terms and conditions of this Letter of Agreement, to include all amendment terms previously
agreed upon, remain intact through to and including June 30, 2025.


This Agreement shall expire on June 30, 2025, unless extended by mutual agreement.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                              35
      LETTER OF AGREEMENT - STANDING RETIREMENT BENEFITS JOINT
                                                          COMMITTEE


This Letter of Agreement (LOA) is entered into between the Department of Administrative
Services (DAS) on behalf of the Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS), the Department
of Education (DOE), and the Early Learning Division, (the “Agencies”) and AFSCME Council 75
(the “Union”) and collectively (the “Parties”).


The State of Oregon and AFSCME have a shared interest in ensuring all Oregonians have an
opportunity to save for a secured retirement. The Parties agree to establish a standing Retirement
Benefits Joint Labor Management Committee (JLMC) to discuss access to retirement benefits for
all bargaining unit members. The Parties agree to form a Committee comprised of no more than
four (4) Union representatives and/or Union Child Care Providers and no more than four (4) State
representatives.          Outside parties/experts may be used to provide information useful to the
workings of the committee.


The first task of the committee shall be to attempt to make recommendations on what could be
done to immediately improve access to retirement benefits for providers in time to be considered
by the next legislative session convening in 2022. The State and Union shall work in partnership
to execute any joint recommendations this JLMC may propose. Joint recommendations may only
be reached by mutual agreement. The State shall allocate one-time ARPA funding of five million
dollars ($5,000,000) for this purpose of executing joint recommendations. Allocated funding must
be obligated no later than September, 2023 and liquidated no later than September, 2024. The
use of these funds are subject to the ARPA guidance and CCDF requirements.


The JLMC committee shall meet a minimum of one (1) meeting a month with its initial meeting
occurring no later than December 15, 2021, and quarterly thereafter in 2023.
Amendment #1
On December 1, 2022, the submission of the Joint Labor Management Committee’s
(“Committee”) joint recommendation to implement OregonSaves as a retirement solution was
approved and the Committee continues to meet and discuss program implementation. The Parties
have determined to amend this Letter of Agreement to ensure an understanding of the eligibility
2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                     36
and enrollment criteria for bargaining unit members to participate in the program. Accordingly, this
Letter of Agreement is further amended as follows:


1.       Bargaining unit members must pass the federal requirements, including but not limited to
         the Know Your Customer criterion, to open an OregonSaves account.
2.       The bargaining unit member must have their licensed family child care facility open and
         hold an active license on the date the Oregon Treasury Department makes the transfer of
         the one-time disbursement into their OregonSaves retirement account.
3.       Funds designated for this purpose ($5M ARPA Funds) will be disbursed evenly amongst
         the bargaining unit members who have met the eligibility criteria and have successfully
         completed enrollment in OregonSaves.
4.       Bargaining unit members who have not met the criteria above are not entitled to any other
         form of compensation in lieu of participation in the OregonSaves retirement program.


This Agreement shall expire on June 30, 2025, unless extended by mutual agreement.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                       37
      LETTER OF AGREEMENT - STATE ORGANIZATIONAL CHANGE (NEW)


This Letter of Agreement (LOA) is entered into between the Department of Administrative
Services (DAS) on behalf of the Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS), the Oregon
Department of Education (DOE), Early Learning Division, (the “Agencies”) and AFSCME (the
“Union”) and collectively (the “Parties”).


In the event the organizational affiliation for the Department of Human Services Child Care
Program or the Oregon Department of Education and Early Learning Division changes to a
different Agency or Agencies of the State, the Union shall continue to be recognized as the
certified representative of the Licensed Certified and Registered family child care providers’
bargaining unit. In addition, the Collective Bargaining Agreement shall remain effective through
its term with the new State Agency or Agencies.


This Agreement shall expire on June 30, 2025, unless extended by mutual agreement.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                   38
   LETTER OF AGREEMENT – HEALTH BENEFITS STANDING JOINT LABOR
                                            MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE


This Letter of Agreement (LOA) is entered into between the Department of Administrative
Services (DAS) on behalf of the Oregon Department of Human Services (ODHS), the Oregon
Department of Education (DOE), Early Learning Division, (the “Agencies”) and AFSCME (the
“Union”) and collectively (the “Parties”).


It is the intent of the Parties to establish and implement affordable health insurance for childcare
providers in the 2025-2027 biennium. The Parties commit to a joint effort to secure funding from
the 2025 Legislative Session with the intent to implement the plan before December 31, 2025.
The Parties continue to acknowledge the importance of health care benefits for childcare
providers. The Committee will build upon the research recommendations contained in the 2021
Health Care Exploratory Committee Report published in September 2022, with the aid of other
state agencies, to determine the steps that may be taken to begin supporting Family Child Care
Providers access to high-quality healthcare. Accordingly, the Parties agree to the following:


         1.        The workgroup shall consist of no more than five (5) Union representatives and/or
                   Union childcare providers and no more than five (5) State representatives. The
                   workgroup will consult with advisors including staff from other State agencies as well
                   as outside organizations to obtain the information necessary for the workgroup to
                   complete the work described below.
         2.        The workgroup shall meet once per each month effective with the first month
                   following ratification of this Agreement.
         3.        The workgroup will complete a report to be submitted to State Leadership by May
                   31, 2024 which will provide a detailed analysis of total annual cost projections and
                   implementation considerations.


    This Agreement shall expire on June 30, 2025, unless extended by mutual agreement.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                            39
                   APPENDIX A- FAMILY CHILD CARE PROVIDER BILL OF RIGHTS
All family child care providers have:


1.       The right to be treated as a professional with courtesy, dignity, consideration and respect.


2.       The right to be given the same consideration and treatment as all other providers
         regardless of race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, political
         affiliation, disability, marital status, age or union affiliation.


3.       The right to file a complaint with the appropriate agency when provider believes they have
         been discriminated against because of race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation,
         national origin, political affiliation, disability, marital status, age or union affiliation.


4.       The right to request and be given a new licensing specialist for cause one time so long as
         staffing allows in that area.


5.       The right to receive written information such as notices and explanation in provider’s
         primary language as provided for in law and agency policy.


6.       The right to receive written notice of any changes to payment or programs that affect
         families receiving state subsidies.


7.       The right to have the information in their own provider file kept confidential, except as
         otherwise provided for by state and federal law.


8.       The right to review all information in their provider file, except as otherwise provided for by
         state and federal law.


9.       The right to require representatives of Agencies to show photo identification and leave a
         business card.


10.      The right to be advised by the Agency of the type of visit.
2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                              40
11.      The right during all visits to be treated professionally and receive an objective impartial
         assessment.


12.      The right to request a witness to observe and document any visit including compliance
         visits, so long as it does not delay the compliance visit.


13.      The right to receive an accurate report of the visit including the evaluator’s findings listing
         each observed deficiency. The description of the evaluator’s observation shall include a
         clear explanation of why the existing condition constitutes a deficiency and the provider’s
         explanation of the deficiency.


14.      The right to be informed of the evaluator’s supervisor and his/her contact information.


15.      The right to be given technical assistance by the agency if provider receives a compliance
         visit that identifies “valid” out of compliance issues.


16.      The right to have OCC complaint allegations found “valid” before registration or certification
         is revoked or suspended. Once a complaint is found valid, and action is taken on the
         license, OCC may send letters to parents. Letters are not sent to parents during the course
         of an investigation except for open investigations of criminal conduct and child abuse.


17.      The right to have a Union representative present during any interactions so long as it does
         not delay the interaction.




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                           41
                                       APPENDIX B – PAYMENT SCHEDULE

Effective January 1, 2024.
                                                       REGISTERED FAMILY
                                                   80% of 2022 Market Price Study

                                      80%                      1/1/2024                         80%        1/1/2024
      Rate Area/Age Current Hourly Hourly Rate                Hourly Rate   Current Monthly Monthly Rate Monthly Rate
      A - Infant         $           6.00 $           7.00 $         7.00   $     1,085.00 $    1,157.00 $   1,157.00
      A - Toddler        $           5.00 $           6.33 $         6.33   $       960.00 $    1,050.00 $   1,050.00
      A - Pre-School     $           5.50 $           6.00 $         6.00   $       900.00 $      967.00 $     967.00
      A - School         $           5.00 $           5.67 $         5.67   $       750.00 $      867.00 $     867.00


      B - Infant         $           4.50 $           4.67 $         4.67   $       750.00 $      833.00 $     833.00
      B - Toddler        $           4.00 $           4.33 $         4.33   $       700.00 $      783.00 $     783.00
      B - Pre School     $           4.00 $           4.17 $         4.17   $       680.00 $      768.00 $     768.00
      B - School         $           4.00 $           4.33 $         4.33   $       650.00 $      719.00 $     719.00


      C - Infant         $           4.50 $           4.67 $         4.67   $       750.00 $      833.00 $     833.00
      C - Toddler        $           4.00 $           4.33 $         4.33   $       700.00 $      783.00 $     783.00
      C - Pre School     $           4.00 $           4.17 $         4.17   $       680.00 $      768.00 $     768.00
      C - School         $           4.00 $           4.33 $         4.33   $       650.00 $      719.00 $     719.00


                                              CERTIFIED FAMILY
                                        80% of 2022 Market Price Study
                                      80%         1/1/2024                         80%        1/1/2024
      Rate Area/Age Current Hourly Hourly Rate   Hourly Rate   Current Monthly Monthly Rate Monthly Rate
      A - Infant         $           6.00 $           7.33 $         7.33   $     1,650.00 $    1,809.00 $   1,809.00
      A - Toddler        $           7.00 $           7.33 $         7.33   $     1,568.00 $    1,675.00 $   1,675.00
      A - Pre-School     $           6.00 $           7.33 $         7.33   $     1,275.00 $    1,466.00 $   1,466.00
      A - School         $           6.00 $           7.67 $         7.67   $     1,000.00 $    1,150.00 $   1,150.00


      B - Infant         $           5.00 $           5.92 $         5.92   $     1,000.00 $    1,067.00 $   1,067.00
      B - Toddler        $           5.00 $           5.25 $         5.25   $       900.00 $    1,008.00 $   1,008.00
      B - Pre School     $           5.75 $           5.75 $         5.75   $       850.00 $      933.00 $     933.00
      B - School         $           5.75 $           5.83 $         5.83   $       750.00 $      800.00 $     800.00


      C - Infant         $           5.00 $           5.92 $         5.92   $     1,000.00 $    1,067.00 $   1,067.00
      C - Toddler        $           5.00 $           5.25 $         5.25   $       900.00 $    1,008.00 $   1,008.00
      C - Pre School     $           5.75 $           5.75 $         5.75   $       850.00 $      933.00 $     933.00
      C - School         $           5.75 $           5.83 $         5.83   $       750.00 $      800.00 $     800.00




2021-2025 AFSCME Child Care Collective Bargaining Agreement                                                             42
                  Department of Administrative Services
                     Chief Human Resources Office
                          Labor Relations Unit
                         155 Cottage Street NE
                         Salem, OR 97301-3971
                         LRU@das.oregon.gov


The official version of this Agreement is held by the Department of Administrative
Services Labor Relations Unit on its electronic files at the website below. The
Department of Administrative Services does not recognize any other copies or
publications of this Agreement.
             Electronic version of the Agreement located at:
              http://www.oregon.gov/das/HR/Pages/LRU.aspx
