                           Memorandum       of Understanding (MOU)
                                       By and Between
                                 Washington County (County)
                                             And
                   Washington County Police Officers’ Association (WCPOA)
Recitals:

WHEREAS the County and WCPOA are Parties to two (2) collective bargaining agreements
(CBAs) currently in effect through June 30, 2025 for employees represented by the WCPOA;
and

WHEREAS, in 2019 the Oregon Legislative Assembly passed HB 2005, the Paid Family
Medical! Leave Act (Act), which established a paid family and medical insurance program for
employees in Oregon; and

WHEREAS, the Act creates a family and medical leave insurance program to provide
compensation for time off work to eligible employees, self-employed individuals, and employees
of tribal governments, all of which are defined in the Act. The Act provides for contributions by
employers and employees as a percentage of wages deducted from payroll; and

WHEREAS,     the State of Oregon has currently delayed the implementation of the Act until
September 2023 and the program has been rebranded as Paid Leave Oregon (PLO); and

WHEREAS, this MOU serves to memorialize the Parties’ impact bargaining stemming from
passage of HB 2005 (2019) and the implementation of PLO by the State of Oregon.

NOW THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:

Agreement

1. Effective retroactive to January 1, 2023, employees shall contribute the employees’ portion of
the contribution to PLO in the amount of six tenths (60%) of the total one percent (1.00%)
required contribution rate as determined by the Oregon Employment Department (OED).

2. Effective retroactive to January 1, 2023, the County will contribute four tenths (40%) of the
total one percent (1.00%) required contribution rate as determined by the OED.

3. Should the percentage contribution rates set forth in number | and 2 above be modified by the
State or State agencies (e.g., through legislation or statutory changes) in the future, the Parties
agree to reopen this MOU for further bargaining. For bargaining timeline purposes, the Parties
will follow PECBA’s expedited bargaining process under ORS 243.698.

4, Employees will be allowed to use their accrued County leave to supplement their PLO benefit
upon application for PLO benefits. An employee choosing to supplement their PLO leave with
accrued County leave will be required to provide the County with a copy of their state of Oregon
PLO gross benefit amount statement, as provided to the employee by the OED PLO program.

081023 Collaborative TC MIM/PH - Revised PLO MOU
                                             Page 1 of 4
The County will calculate the needed accrual use balance to make the employee whole based
upon the County gross wages of the employee.

5. With regard to supplementing their PLO benefit, an employee will have the option to
designate the order of leave accruals to be used in order to attain 100% of the employee’s County
gross wages. The employee must provide the designation of the order of leave accruals, in
writing, to the County. If the employee does not designate a specific order for leave accrual use,
the County will use and deplete an employee’s accrued leave(s) in the following order: sick
leave, MAPPS, holiday leave or (ILH), vacation leave, and comp time. If the employee
designates a specific order of leave, the County will use that order for the remainder of the leave,
or until the employee provides timely written notice (prior to the end of the pay period)
requesting to change the order and/or number of hours used.

6. The County will not require that employees exhaust their accrual banks, nor will the County
require that employees use any of their accrued leave before using PLO leave.

7. Effective, September 3, 2023, the County will use a rolling forward calendar year when
calculating available protected leave for the employee. To effectuate the implementation of this
new “rolling forward calendar year” for protected leave, all protected status leaves will be reset
and begin anew on September 3, 2023.

8. Use of PLO benefits will begin upon the date after notification from the state of Oregon that
PLO benefits are available for use by employees. The County will require that employees follow
the PLO notification rules as outlined by the State, providing written thirty (30) calendar days’
notice before commencing a period of known family, medical, or safe leave, and providing oral
notice within twenty-four (24) hours before the commencement of an emergency period of
family, medical, or safe leave, and providing written notice within three (3) calendar days after
the commencement of the emergency leave.

9. The County will require that an employee who provides notice for PLO leave disclose whether
that leave is for a family, medical, or safe leave purpose. If the PLO leave is for a family
member, the County will also require that the employee disclose which family member the leave
is for. The County will not require that the employee disclose confidential information, or any
other specific information related to why or what the PLO leave is needed for except to
determine whether other local, state, and federal leave protections must run concurrently.

10. Upon the receipt of written authorization from the employee, or when there is an issue that
is the subject of a WCPOA grievance, possible WCPOA grievance, and/or WCPOA bargaining
issue, the County will provide WCPOA’s legal counsel all employee PLO information, related to
the WCPOA grievance, possible WCPOA grievance, and/or WCPOA bargaining issue, in the
possession of the County. The County acknowledges that WCPOA’s legal counsel is HIPAA
compliant, and that PLO information transmitted from the County to WCPOA’s legal counsel
will be held and used in compliance with HIPAA and other applicable privacy laws. WCPOA
shall defend, save, hold harmless and indemnify the County including its elected officials,
agents, officers, and employees, from and against all claims, suits, actions, losses, damages,

081023 Collaborative TC MM/PH   - Revised PLO MOU
                                             Page 2 of 4
liabilities, costs, and expenses of any nature whatsoever, including attorney’s fees, resulting
from, arising out of or relating to a disclosure or use of confidential information by WCPOA      in
breach of this MOU.


11. The County will run PLO leave concurrent with the other protected leaves as required by
State and federal law.

12. The County will allow for employees to take PLO leave in single days or by weeks or
intermittently as required by State law.

13. The Parties agree that the employees do not lose any of their seniority accrued before the date
on which their PLO leave commences as required under ORS 657B.060(3). The Parties also
agree that when an employee is on PLO leave, that period of PLO leave will count towards
seniority accrual consistent with the current CBA.

14. The Parties agree that the employees do not lose any of their health benefits accrued before
the date on which their PLO leave commences as required under ORS 657B.060(3). The Parties
also agree that an employee on PLO leave will maintain their existing “health benefits” in
accordance with the current CBA until the employee’s PLO leave ends. Employees on an
unprotected, unpaid leave of absence may not be eligible for the County’s standard benefits
package.

15. The Parties understand that PLO legislation and OARs related to PLO are not finalized yet.
Therefore, the Parties agree to engage in further bargaining and reopen this MOU, if necessary,
to discuss mandatory subjects of bargaining and impact bargaining regarding PLO. For
bargaining timeline purposes, the Parties will follow PECBA’s expedited bargaining process
under ORS 243.698,


16. The County represents that it will not be offering any economic offset to WCPOA, other
bargaining units, or unrepresented employees with regard to the employee’s required share under
Paid Leave Oregon. The County agrees that if in the future the County does offer or agree to any
economic offset with regard to the employee’s required share under Paid Leave Oregon, the
County will provide WCPOA a copy of any such offer and/or agreement and this MOU will
automatically be reopened for bargaining.

17. This MOU represents the entire agreement between the Parties. The Parties agree they are
not relying on any promises or representations other than what is stated in this MOU.

18. Any amendments to this MOU must be in writing, signed by authorized representatives of
the Parties, and must specifically state that it was intended to amend this MOU.

19. This MOU expires upon execution of the next successor CBA unless otherwise terminated
early or extended by mutual written agreement signed by both Parties.


081023 Collaborative TC MM/PH   - Revised PLO MOU
                                              Page 3 of 4
The Parties acknowledge their agreement with the terms of this MOU by signing below.


                                                                    ADO
 Patrick
      .
                  eae                ”
                  Digitally signed by Patrick


 Garrett          0700
                  Date;   2023.08.20   14:33:50




Pat Garrett, Sheriff                                                      Patrick Altiere, WCPOA                            President



Date                                                                      Date 4


                            Digitally signed by Erin                               Approved as to Form
 Erin Calvert sxe co2s.0821 122913
       0                    Calvert


                     -07°00                                                        Mark J. Makler [Aug21, 2023 14:01 PDT)
Erin Calvert, Asst. County Administrator                                           Mark Makler, WCPOA                             Counsel



Date                                                                               Date




Approved as to Form


County Counsel



Date




081023 Collaborative TC MM/PH                     - Revised PLO MOU
                                                                Page 4 of 4
