                    MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
                                 Between
                           WASHINGTON COUNTY
                                   And
           FEDERATION OF OREGON PAROLE AND PROBATION OFFICERS

Washington County (“County”) and the Federation of Oregon Parole and Probation Officers
(“Union”) are parties to a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) currently in effect through
June 30, 2022.

It is the County’s position that the provisions of County Policy T-315, Covid-19 Risk and
Protection Framework, Section 2) Covid-19 Vaccinations, applies to employees receiving
vaccination incentive pay since the County has determined that it is inappropriate to pay
overtime to any employees for time spent receiving the Covid-19 vaccine during their regularly
scheduled work time; and

The County acknowledges that misrepresentations may have been made regarding the allowance
of overtime pay for Union employees utilizing the County’s Covid-19 Vaccinations incentive on
January 18, 2021; and

The County and Union have entered into this Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on the
date below for the purpose of effecting a one-time, non-precedent setting, settlement agreement
related to the recent County overtime payment allowed for employees receiving the Covid-19
Vaccinations on January 18, 2021; and

In consideration of the mutual benefit to each of the parties, the County and Union agree as
follows:

   1. County and Union agree that the provisions of County Policy T-315 Covid-19 Risk and
      Protection Framework Policy, Section 2 - Covid-19 Vaccinations, was not applied
      appropriately to the Union vaccination events that occurred on Monday, January 18,
      2021.

   2. County and Union agree that the no overtime provisions in Section 2 of the County
      Policy T-315, Covid-19 Risk and Protection Framework, apply to FOPPO represented
      employees.

   3. Based on certain mistaken representations, the County and Union agree in good faith to
      the following on a one-time basis which Union agrees shall not be raised as or relied
      upon as establishing any future precedent:

       •   Some Union employees working in Probation and Parole and may have received
           overtime pay for two hours worked, if they were scheduled and received their Covid-
           19 vaccine on Monday, January 18, 2021 and worked an additional 80 hours within
           the pay period.
       •   County and Union agree that County will not contest or seek to recover any overtime
           payments made to Union employees as a result of the misapplication of County
           Policy T-315 Covid-19 Risk and Protection Framework Policy on January 18, 2021.

   4. County and Union agree that for any future instances of employees utilizing the Covid-19
      Vaccination incentive, the use of the incentive time off and pay will not be counted as
      time worked and included in calculating overtime pay for all employees, including all
      Union employees.


Agreed on this __ day of March, 2021.


WASHINGTON COUNTY                                  FEDERATION OF OREGON PAROLE
                                                   AND PROBATION OFFICERS



//Signature on file 3/29/2021//                    //Signature on file 3/23/2021//
By Deputy Administrative Officer                   By Union President
