                           Memorandum of Agreement (MOA)
                                     By and Between
                   Washington County Sheriff's Office (WCSO) -SSG
                                            And
                Washington County Police Officers Association (WCPOA)



    RE:   Jail Service Technician Supervisor (JSTSUP) Classification Implementation

Background: WCPOA and WCSO are parties to a collective bargaining agreement
(CBA) that covers a series classification known as Jail Service Technician |, Il and III
(JST I, JST Il, JST Ill — collectively JSTs.) WCSO and WCPOA have met and bargained
about the creation of a new classification known as the JST Supervisor (JSTSUP).

This MOA details bargaining issues that the parties have at this point discussed and
agreed upon to get the JSTSUP classification implemented and initially filled with three
(3) employees on or before June 30, 2026. The fourth JSTSUP position will be created
by a reclassified position from the WCSO 2026-2027 budget, and the fourth JSTSUP
position will be opened for recruitment and selection by no later than July 31, 2026.

1.   JSTSUP classification will be added as a represented classification in the
WCPOA SSG CBA.

2.      All the terms and conditions of the WCPOA SSG CBA will apply to the JSTSUP
classification. In addition, additional terms and conditions as set forth in the MOA will
also apply to the JSTSUP classification.

**The parties have been unable to reach resolution on economics associated with a
pay scale agreement for the JST Supervisor position. WCPOA has proposed the
following language:

3S:    As of July 1, 2026, wages for the JSTSUP classification will be tied to the JST III
salary step classification for 2026-2027 as follows:

        A.     The first JSTSUP salary step (STEP A) listed in the JSTSUP Salary
Schedule will be five percent (5%) above the top step JST III salary step (STEP F) set
forth in Schedule A of the WCPOA SSG CBA (2026-2027).

       B.    There shall be five (5) JSTSUP salary steps listed in JSTSUP Salary
Schedule. There shall be a five percent (5%) increased differential between each salary
step.

        C.     Per Schedule A of the current SSG CBA, the July 1, 2026, JST Ill
classification salary schedule hourly rates are set forth here:
061426 v11 JSTSUP MOA WCPOA                                                       Page | of 4
       STEPS:

      A               B             C             D             E             F

      $35.86          $37.66        $39.54        $41.50        $43.58        $45.76

       D.       Per this MOA, the five (5) JSTSUP salary steps for July 1, 2026, are:

      STEPS:

      A               B             C             D             E             F

      $48.05          $50.45        $52.97        $55.62        $58.40        $6182

       E.    There shall be five (5) JSTSUP salary steps listed in JSTSUP Salary
Schedule. There shall be a five percent (5%) increase between each salary step.

              The County has proposed and will UNILATERALLY IMPLEMENT the
following pay scale effective July 1, 2026:

       F,      Pursuant to the county approved compensation plan, the JSTSUP salary
steps for July 1, 2026, are:

      STEPS:

      A               B             C             D             E             F

     $42.43         $44.53        $46.75        $49.11        $51.55         N/A

         G.    Each promoted employee will receive at least a five percent (5%) increase
in their pay when promoted and must be placed at one of the salary steps.

4.    Call back and off-duty communications will be handled in accordance with
Articles 11 and 12 of the SSG CBA.

JSTSUP are required to report all off-duty time worked.

5.     The commanding officer in charge of a division or a shift or their supervisory
designee is the only person authorized to require overtime by subordinates. An
employee shall be given at least two (2) hours’ notice of mandatory overtime that the
employee is ordered to work, unless it is an unforeseen circumstance that could not
have been identified earlier. Mandating a JSTSUP for overtime requires the
authorization for the JST Manager or Lieutenant or above.

Overtime Opportunities for JSTSUPs. Sufficient time must be allowed for bargaining unit
employees to sign up for their bargaining unit assignments, hours, and overtime before


061426 v11 JSTSUP MOA WCPOA                                                        Page 2 of 4
being offered to JSTSUPs. Sufficient time shall be defined as half (1/2) of the available
time for overtime signup.

Additionally, sufficient time must be allowed for JSTSUPs to sign up before offering to
non-bargaining unit employees. Sufficient time shall be defined as half (1/2) of the
available time for JSTSUPs to sign up.

In addition to the uniform items in Article 15 of the SSG contract, JSTSUPs will be
authorized two (2) dress shirts from the approved jail uniform items. Dress shirts can be
worn in a manner consistent with WCSO and County policy.

6.      The three (3) employees currently holding JST III positions will automatically be
reclassified into the new JST Supervisor positions, leaving a fourth JST Supervisor
position open for recruitment. For the fourth (unfilled) JST Supervisor position, the
County shall post an internal recruitment that is open to all eligible and qualified
WCPOA represented employees. The internal recruitment shall be posted and open for
a minimum of seven (7) calendar days. The County internal recruitment posting shall
establish the minimum qualifications (MQs) for the JSTSUP position and include a copy
of the Job Classification — designated as Jail Services Technician Supervisor, attached
and incorporated by reference as part of this MOA. The County reserves the right to
modify the Job Classification. A copy of this MOA will be made available for any
applicant who wishes to view it. If the initial internal recruitment is unsuccessful, the
position will be posted for external recruitment.

7.      With the implementation of this MOA the parties agree that the JST Ill
classification will not have any current WCPOA represented employees holding that
position. However, the JST Ill classification will continue to exist so that in the future, the
parties can use the JST Ill classification for the benefit of the operational needs of the
WCSO.

8.       WCSO will provide WCPOA a list of known tasks, duties and practices of the
soon-to-be vacated JST Ill classification that will not be handled by the JSTSUP
classification. The parties agree that WWCPOA has the right to demand to bargain about
additional work-load impacts and effects after this information is provided to WCPOA,
and the parties agree to engage in ORS 243.698 et seq mid-term bargaining if WCPOA
initiates such a demand to bargain.   The parties agree that workload impacts may arise in
the future and we will determine next steps as a result of this change.

9.    The initial three (3) JSTSUP employees selected will be able to use their WCPOA
SENIORITY to bid for DAY SHIFT, SWING SHIFT, and/or GRAVEYARD SHIFT.
JSTSUP seniority will be used and apply per the WCPOA SSG CBA.

10.    CLASSIFICATIONS will be a special assignment that will be chosen from the
JSTSUPs prior to the JSTSUP seniority bid. CLASSIFICATIONS special assignment will
be a term of five (5) years.

061426 v11 JSTSUP MOA WCPOA                                                          Page 3 of 4
11.      Any employee selected as a JSTSUP will serve as a probationary employee for
the first twelve (12) months following their selection or promotion to JSTSUP. If one (1)
of the three (3) initial employees reclassified from JST Ill to JSTSUP are unsuccessful in
completing probation, their unsuccessful JSTSUP probation shall result in a non-
disciplinary decision and that employee will be placed in a JST II position but maintain
the last rate of pay they held at the JST Ill rate. The open JSTSUP position will be
opened for recruitment and selection of a WCPOA represented employee.

12.    Voluntary demotion and/or layoffs will be handled in accordance with Article 20
Section G of the contract.

13.    Any JST that is assigned in any capacity to do the work of a JSTSUP will receive
Higher Class Pay in accordance with Article 13.1 of the SSG Contract.

14.     The parties recognize and agree that there may be other mandatory bargaining
and impact/effect issues that occur and surface as the JSTSUP classification comes
into existence. The parties commit and agree to engage in ORS 243.698 et seq. mid-
term PECBA bargaining as these issues occur and surface.

15.    The parties agree that the terms and conditions of this MOA will be added to the
successor WCPOA SSG CBA.

16.    |The County acknowledges and agrees that the parties have bargained per ORS
243.698 et seq. and the County is UNILATERALLY implementing its proposed five (5)
step wage scale as set forth in this MOA.

17.     |The County acknowledges and agrees that this MOA shows both what WCPOA
has proposed regarding wages and what the County is choosing to unilaterally
implement. The County acknowledges and agrees that WCPOA has a PECBA right to
interest arbitration of the disputed wages per ORS 243.698 and the County
acknowledges and agrees that it will participate in such an interest arbitration without
objection if pursued by WCPOA.



ITISAGREED this _/6        day of June 2026,

For Washington County
                            .              Digitally signed by
                         Eri Nn            Erin Calvert
  -                                      —Date: 2026.06.16
Erin Calvert             Calvert           16:09:11 -07'00'


For the Washington County Police Officers Association

      7             ee
Frank Ward, President

061426 v11 JSTSUP MOA WCPOA                                                     Page 4 of 4
