                            Memorandum          ofAgreement
                               Lateral Hiring Incentive Pay

                                I. Parties to the Agreement

The parties to this Memorandum of Agreement (hereafter referred to as "MOA") are
Washington    County, Oregon, (hereinafter referred to as "County"), and Washington
County Police Officer's Association, (hereinafter referred to as "WCPOA").


                                       Il. Background

1. The County desires to recruit and retain a qualified and resilient workforce. The
vacancy rate among certified Jail and Patrol Deputies is high. The County continues to
take measures to enhance work-life balance, promote mental and physical health, and
implement salary incentives to remain competitive in an extraordinarilychallenging labor
market. Therefore, the County has introduced two additional incentives to encourage
lateral hires and retention of current employees: a lateral hiring incentive for qualified
lateral applicants and a longevity incentive premium for current qualified employees.
2. This MOA   establishes a hiring incentive for qualified lateral Jail Deputy and Patrol
Deputy candidates who are offered a position with WCSO. THEREFORE, the parties
agree as follows:

                                       Ill. Agreement

1. The parties mutually recognize the importance of having a competitive stance inthe
current law enforcement labor market to attract lateral applicants.

2. Effective March 2, 2024, a lateral hiring incentive of $10,000 will be offered to
successful candidates offered a lateral position with WCSO. Qualified lateral
candidates must possess a minimum of a basic level Patrol or Corrections DPSST
certification or equivalent as appropriate to the job classification. Certifications must be
current.

3. The lateral hiring incentive will be paid out in two installments of $5,000. The first
installment ($5,000) will be paid in the candidate's first full paycheck; the second
installment ($5,000) will be paid upon successful completion of the probationary period.

4. The hiring incentive installment payments will be issued with the employee's regular
paycheck after each installment criteria is met. The payments are considered
supplemental wages.

5. Lateral Jail Deputy and Patrol Deputy candidates previously employed by WCSO
must have been separated from WCSO for a period of no less than one year to
qualify for this incentive.
6. Nothing herein shall alter any other term of the ECU CBA. This MOA is
understood by the parties to be limited in duration and will expire at the end of the
current ECU contract period (June 30, 2025). If a new contract is not complete at the
end of the current contract period, this MOA will remain in place until a new contract is
ratified.
 7. Any disputes regarding the interpretation or application of this MOA                shall be resolved
 by the Parties using the grievance procedures of the ECU CBA.

 8. This MOA does not establish status quo or otherwise hold precedent-setting value
 in successor bargaining or an interest arbitration.

 9. This MOA applies the ECU CBA only and shall be effective upon signatures of both
 parties.




AGREED to this date, 6/14/2024


   For WCPOA:                                         For the County:
                                                                        Digitally signed by Erin
                                          Erin              Calvert     srscz02
                                                                        09:25:57 -07'00'
