                                       Memorandum of Agreement
                                                 Between
                                      Washington County (‘County’)
                                                     And
                      The Washington County Police Officers Association (WCPOA)
                                                 I. Parties
The parties to this Memorandum of Agreement (hereafter referred to as "MOA") are Washington County,
Oregon, (hereinafter referred to as "County"), and Washington County Police Officer's Association,
(hereinafter referred to as "WCPOA"). This MOA applies to the WCPOA Enforcement/Corrections Unit (ECU)
Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) in effect through June 30, 2025, and any applicable successor CBA.

                                                II. Background
 The Washington County District Attorney’s Office (WCDA) received funding for two (2) DA Investigator
 positions. The positions are full-time Detective positions. In an effort to support the current staffing levels
 and the needs of the DA's Office, the parties agree to extend the recruitment to internal and external
 applicants.
                                                 III. Agreement
    1. The parties agree that WCDA needs DA Investigators with law enforcement authority and
         experience assigned into the WCDA office.

    2. The parties agree the WCDA Investigator assignment is a Detective classification assignment
       represented by WCPOA and covered by the WCPOA ECU CBA.

    3. The parties agree that WCSO may post WCDA Investigator assignments internally and externally
       for selection.

    4. The parties agree that the WCDA Detective may be eligible to rotate job assignments into WCSO
       upon approval.

    5. Except as modified above, all other provisions of the applicable CBA shall continue to apply; any
       disputes regarding the interpretation or application of this MOA shall be resolved by the parties by the
       grievance procedure of the WCPOA ECU CBA.

    6. This MOA is the full and final agreement of the parties regarding this issue.


 AGREED to this date,                February 14 2025
                                       ________,

        For WCPOA:                                                 For the County
                             Digitally signed by Patrick Altiere                    Digitally signed by Erin

         Patrick Altiere     Date: 2025.02.21 07:48:26
                             -08'00'
                                                                   Erin Calvert     Calvert
                                                                                    Date: 2025.02.21 13:48:41
                                                                                    -08'00'

        Patrick Altiere                                            Erin Calvert,
        WCPOA President                                            Assistant County Administrator
