                              MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT (MOA)
                                         By and Between
                                   Washington County (County)
                                                And
                       Washington County Police Officers Association (WCPOA)



      Re: Implementation of Paid Leave Oregon (PLO) and impact on Qualified Pay Periods (QPP)

1.   The County and WCPOA are parties to two (2) current collective bargaining agreements (CBAs)
     associated with the Enforcement group and the Sheriff’s Support Group (SSG).

2.   Both CBAs have provisions relating to Qualified Payroll Periods (QPPs). QPPs are defined the
     CBAs and OPPs have an impact on pay and leave provisions for employees represented by
     WCPOA.

3.   The parties met on Monday, October 9, 2023, to discuss implementation of PLO and
     qualification for QPP when PLO is utilized. Agreement was reached as outlined in #4-6 below.

     PLO will count toward QPP in the following circumstances:
         a. Employees will notify and provide the County a copy of their PLO Report of Wages
              detailing the associated dollars that will be paid to the employee each day or week by
              the Oregon Employment Department (OED) which is the state agency that administers
              PLO leave.
              After receipt of this document, the County will calculate the equivalent number of
              accrual hours represented by the payment from theOED. (ie total dollars received
              divided by the regular hourly rate of the employee to determine total number of PLO
              accrual hours to be entered on the employee’s timecard.)
              PLO hours entered based on this PLO calculation will be considered hours paid and
              counted as qualification of QPP hours.
              The County will assist the employee in determining how many accrual hours must be
              used in addition to the calculated PLO hours to obtain QPP for each pay period, which
              must equal at least ninety percent (90%) of the employee’s regular work schedule in
              each pay period.
              If the employee does not have enough accruals to add to PLO hours to equal at least
              ninety percent (90%) of their regular work schedule in each pay period, then the QPP
              threshold for a pay period will not be met and QPP will not be credited for the
              employee.

5.   PLO wages and impact on PERS subject wages.
         a. The County will not pay PERS contributions on funds paid to the employee directly from
            the OED as PLO leave. These are “non-subject wages.”
             Employees using accruals to supplement the PLO calculated hours to bridge the gap in
            wages to obtain QPP may be eligible for PERS credit for the month,
                   i. Creditable service and major fraction of a month are defined under OAR 459-
                      010-0014. Generally, service credit is obtained for the month when an
                      employee is paid by the employer a minimum of fifty (50) hours in that month.
                 ii. Service credit is determined solely by PERS.
      6.   Current payroll system will require programming for PLO to function in the manner outlined in
           this MOA above.
                a. The County will facilitate the process to automate the QPP accruals.
                b. The County will retroactively and manually award QPP to employees who have met QPP
                   with their use of accruals and PLO calculated hours since inception on September 3,
                   2023.
                c. The manual award of QPP will trigger associated leave accruals to be awarded.
                d. The County will provide documentation of retroactivity and/or manual award of QPP to
                   each impacted employee.

     7.    The parties recognize that PLO, PLO benefits, and the impacts of PLO as a state mandated leave
           is new as of September 3, 2023, and if further issues related to PLO are identified by either
           party, the parties agree to meet to address the impacts of such identified issues.



                        AA\n
 It is agreed this     1            day of October 2023.


 For the County                                             For WCPOA


Zi gies                                               ghd’                4. =                             a
Erin Calvert, ACA                                           Patrick Altiere, President
