   WASHINGTON COUNTY/ WASHINGTON COUNTY
              SHERIFF'S OFFICE


                     AND



WASHINGTON COUNTY POLICE OFFICERS' ASSOCIATION

         SHERIFF'S SUPPORT GROUP (SSG)

              2025-2028 AGREEMENT
                                                  Table of Contents
   ARTICLE 1 – RECOGNITION ................................................................................................ 3
   ARTICLE 2 – DEFINITIONS................................................................................................... 4
   ARTICLE 3 – EXISTING CONDITIONS ................................................................................. 5
   ARTICLE 4 – LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE .......................................................... 6
   ARTICLE 5 – ELECTRONIC TECHNOLOGY ........................................................................ 6
   ARTICLE 6 – EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY ....................................................... 8
   ARTICLE 7 – SCOPE OF AGREEMENT ................................................................................ 8
   ARTICLE 8 – EMPLOYEE & ASSOCIATION RIGHTS ......................................................... 9
   ARTICLE 9 – MANAGEMENT RIGHTS ............................................................................... 11
   ARTICLE 10 – HOURS OF WORK ....................................................................................... 12
   ARTICLE 11 – OVERTIME ................................................................................................... 14
   ARTICLE 12 – CALL BACK AND COURT TIME ................................................................ 17
   ARTICLE 13 – WORKING IN HIGHER CLASSIFICATION ................................................ 19
   ARTICLE 14 – SENIORITY ................................................................................................... 19
   ARTICLE 15 – UNIFORMS & EQUIPMENT ....................................................................... 20
   ARTICLE 16 – TIME OFF IN LIEU OF HOLIDAYS............................................................ 21
   ARTICLE 17 – VACATION LEAVE....................................................................................... 21
   ARTICLE 18 – SICK LEAVE ................................................................................................. 24
   ARTICLE 19 – OTHER LEAVES ........................................................................................... 26
   ARTICLE 20 – ADMINISTRATION OF THE SALARY PLAN .............................................. 32
   ARTICLE 21 – INCENTIVE PAY .......................................................................................... 35
   ARTICLE 22 – TRANSITIONAL (LIGHT) DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND PAY ....................... 36
   ARTICLE 23 – XXXX ............................................................................................................. 36
   ARTICLE 24 – ASSOCIATION REPRESENTATIVES .......................................................... 36
   ARTICLE 25 – WAGE & REIMBURSEMENT OVERPAYMENT & REPAYMENT ............. 38
   ARTICLE 26 – MENTAL HEALTH & PHYSICAL FITNESS ................................................ 39
   ARTICLE 27 – TRAVEL PAY ................................................................................................ 42
   ARTICLE 28 – MANDATED BENEFITS .............................................................................. 42
   ARTICLE 29 – INSURANCE ................................................................................................. 42
   ARTICLE 30 – PERSONNEL FILE ....................................................................................... 46
   ARTICLE 31 – DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE ................................................................. 47
   ARTICLE 32 – GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE ........................................................................ 51
   ARTICLE 33 – LAYOFF AND RECALL................................................................................ 53
   ARTICLE 34 – NO STRIKE AND NO LOCKOUT ................................................................ 55
   ARTICLE 35 – SAVINGS CLAUSE ....................................................................................... 56
   ARTICLE 36 – TRAINING ..................................................................................................... 56
   ARTICLE 37 – DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING............................................................... 57
   ARTICLE 38 – EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION ......................................................... 61
   SIGNATURES ........................................................................................................................ 61
   SCHEDULE A – WASHINGTON COUNTY PAY PLAN ....................................................... 62
   APPENDIX 1 – 2026 HEALTH INSURANCE AND BENEFITS ........................................... 63




Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                                                     pg. ii
                                 ARTICLE 1 – RECOGNITION

1.1.   The County recognizes the Association as the exclusive representative and collective
       bargaining agent for all full-time, part-time, seasonal, variable hour and/or temporary
       employees in the following classifications:

              Criminal Records Specialist 1
              Criminal Records Specialist 2
              Investigation Support Specialist
              Jail Services Technician 1
              Jail Services Technician 2
              Jail Services Technician 3

       A.     Confidential and supervisory employees as defined by the Oregon PECBA (ORS
              243.650, et seq.) shall be excluded from the bargaining unit and not covered by
              this Agreement.

       B.     Bargaining unit employees shall have priority for the scheduling of bargaining
              unit assignments, hours and overtime. In other words, non-bargaining unit
              employees shall not be scheduled to perform bargaining unit work and/or
              assignments when there is a bargaining unit employee who is willing, ready and
              able to perform the work. If no qualified bargaining unit employee is ready,
              willing and able to be scheduled to perform the bargaining unit work, a non-
              bargaining unit employee may be scheduled. If a non-bargaining unit employee is
              scheduled there shall be no opportunity for a bargaining unit employee to "bump"
              a non-bargaining unit employee from the assignment or work opportunity that the
              non-bargaining unit employee is scheduled to fill. Regardless of whether a non-
              bargaining unit employee is performing or filling bargaining unit work or
              assignment - the bargaining unit work and/or assignment will remain the
              work/assignment of the Association.

1.2.   The class titles used above are for descriptive purposes only. Copies of the current class
       titles set forth in Section 1.1 shall be made available to the Association electronically.

       Their use is neither an indication nor a guarantee that these classes or titles will continue
       to be utilized by the County.

1.3.   The County shall promptly notify the Association in writing of the County's decision to
       change any of the classifications listed in Section 1.1 above. Such changes must be
       bargained before implementation. If the successor classification is not significantly
       altered or changed from the existing classification, the new classification shall
       automatically be recognized as a part of this Agreement and be represented by the
       Association.

1.4.   New Positions.



Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                    pg. 3
       New classifications performing the same or similar work as those covered by the
       Association may be developed within the Sheriff’s Office by the County and assigned a
       wage scale. The County shall notify the Association President of the new classification
       and forward a job description and wage scale to the Association President for review.
       Pursuant to ORS 243.698, et seq., the Association shall have the right to bargain about
       mandatory subjects and/or subjects with mandatory impacts, related to the new
       classification. If agreement is not reached during the ORS 243.698, et seq. bargaining
       about the new classification, the County may proceed with the hiring process with the
       understanding that any subsequent agreed upon changes related to the new classification
       will be made retroactive to the employee's date of hire. If the classification created by the
       County is disputed as to whether the classification should be represented by the
       Association, either party may challenge the exclusion of the new classification as to
       representation by the Association through PECBA procedures.

       During any challenge as to any inclusion of a classification as being represented by the
       Association, the classification shall remain out of the Association with the understanding
       that if the ERB orders the classification represented by the Association, any employee in
       the classification will be made whole and provided all CBA benefits retroactively to their
       date of hire.

                                 ARTICLE 2 – DEFINITIONS

2.1.   The following definitions shall be applicable to this Agreement:

       A.     "Employee" means any person employed by the County who fills a position in
              one of the classifications listed in the Recognition Article.

       B.     "Probationary Employee" means an employee who has not completed the
              probationary period of their first twelve (12) months following appointment to
              County service.

              The parties agree that an employee's probationary period, whether it be an initial
              probationary period as provided in this Section or an additional probationary
              period as provided in Sections 2.1(C) and 2.1(D), shall be automatically extended
              in the event the employee is unable to perform all duties of their classification for
              a period of one (1) month or longer due to a qualifying health care reason. In that
              situation, the probationary period shall be extended by the length of time the
              employee is unable to perform such duties.

       C.     "Career Employee" means an employee who has successfully completed the
              initial probationary period of twelve (12) months following appointment to
              County service.

       D.     "Career-Probationary Employee" means an employee who serves an additional
              probationary period of twelve (12) months following promotion or transfer to a
              position not previously held or where the employee had not previously attained
              "Career Employee" status as defined above.


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                  pg. 4
       E.     "Full-time" employee means an employee who is regularly budgeted and
              scheduled to work a regular work schedule of forty (40) hours or more per week,
              or 2080 hours or more in a twelve (12) consecutive month period.

       F.     "Part-time" employee means an employee who is regularly budgeted and
              scheduled to work less than forty (40) hours per week, or less than 2080 hours in
              a twelve (12) consecutive month period.

       G.     "Seasonal" employees are not hired or used by the County in any Association-
              represented classification or to do any Association work.

       H.     "Temporary" employee means an employee that is an "at-will" employee. A
              Temporary employee position does not have just cause termination rights as
              described in Article 31 of this Agreement. A temporary employee will only
              occupy their temporary employment position for one hundred and eighty (180)
              consecutive calendar days or less. Temporary employees may only be employed
              by the County as a temporary employee no more than one hundred and eighty
              (180) consecutive calendar days in any twelve (12) consecutive month period of
              time. All temporary employees employed by the Sheriff’s Office will be laid off
              and eliminated before any full-time or part-time Association represented
              employee is laid off as a result of a reduction-in-force. To the extent that policies
              of the County related to Temporary employees conflict with the terms of this
              Agreement, the County's policies shall control.

       I.     "Variable Hour" employee means an employee who works variable hours of no
              more than an average of twenty (20) hours in any workweek. Variable Hour
              employee positions do not have just cause termination rights as described in
              Article 31 of this Agreement. Variable Hour employees are specifically used to
              satisfy an on-going business need to cover Association classification work shifts
              for regular Association employee positions due to vacations, training, and leaves
              of absence and other staffing needs. Work hours are variable during the course of
              a workweek. Variable Hour employee work shifts and schedules will be
              electronically posted as soon as the County knows that a variable hour employee
              is needed. The Variable Hour employee work shifts and schedules will be
              electronically posted so that the Association President or designee has access to
              the variable hour schedules and work shift. Variable Hour employees will not be
              used to abrogate, eliminate, displace or replace regular/career Association
              represented employees. All Variable Hour employees employed by the Sheriff's
              Office will be laid off and eliminated before any full-time or part-time
              Association represented employee is laid off as a result of a reduction-in-force.
              To the extent that policies of the County related to Variable Hour employees
              conflict with the terms of this Agreement, the County's policies shall control.

                           ARTICLE 3 – EXISTING CONDITIONS

3.1.   Standards of employment related to wages, hours and working conditions and safety that
       constitute mandatory subjects of bargaining shall be continued at not less than the level in


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                  pg. 5
       effect at the time of the execution of this Agreement.

                   ARTICLE 4 – LABOR-MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE

4.1.   The County and the Association shall establish a Labor-Management Committee to
       advance communications on matters of concern to either party. The purpose of the Labor-
       Management Committee is to foster improved communications, the sharing of
       information, and effective problem solving between the County and the Association. The
       Committee generally serves as an advisory rather than a decision-making body. The
       Committee shall meet periodically and shall consist of the members of the Sheriff’s
       Office command staff selected by the Sheriff and members of the Association’s
       Executive Board selected by the Association President. Association counsel and the
       County’s legal counsel, as well as representatives of Human Resources, may also attend
       as ex-officio members of the Committee. Employees will be permitted to attend on duty.
       The Committee shall not become involved in individual grievances nor shall the
       committee meetings be construed as formal contract negotiations.

4.2.   The Association and the County shall appoint no more than five (5) representatives each
       to the Labor Management Committee (LMC). The committee shall consist of the
       members of the Sheriff’s Office command staff selected by the Sheriff and members of
       the Association's Executive Board selected by the Association President. Representatives
       of Human Resources may also attend as ex-officio members of the Committee.

       The committee will meet to establish a meeting schedule to share information and discuss
       issues, which may be appropriate for future LMC activity. It is agreed that this time shall
       be County-paid time. The parties mutually agree to utilize a consensus method involving
       all recommendations of the committee.

                        ARTICLE 5 – ELECTRONIC TECHNOLOGY

5.1    Electronic Technology (E-Tech) used by the County and Sheriff’s Office encompasses
       and includes, but is not limited to, Body-Worn Camera (BWC), Global Positioning
       System (GPS), Automatic Vehicle Location System (AVL), Artificial Intelligence (AI)
       and all other electronic technology capable of tracking the movements and/or location of
       an employee represented by the Association (i.e., Cellular Phones, Laptops, Tablets,
       MDCs, etc.). E-Tech is an effective law enforcement tool that can enhance the
       understanding of interactions between law enforcement officers and the public. E-Tech
       provides additional documentation of public safety-public encounters and can be an
       important tool for collecting evidence and maintaining public trust.

5.2    E-Tech Restrictions. Supervisors shall not use E-Tech for the purpose of general
       performance review without giving the employee the opportunity to include incidents of
       their choosing. Supervisors shall not use E-Tech for the sole purpose to discover policy
       violations. This restriction does not limit the Sheriff’s Office’s ability to review E-Tech
       for verification of official complaints.

       Individual employees’ E-Tech recording(s) will be made available to assist with the


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                  pg. 6
      investigation and report documentation.

      Individual employee E-Tech recording(s) will be controlled and only accessed for official
      use. Employees shall not be authorized to view E-Tech recordings outside of official
      duties.

5.3   Access and Use of E-Tech. When E-Tech is used by the Sheriff’s Office as part of an
      allegation of policy violations and/or disciplinary investigation, the Association and
      employees, whose voice or image was captured by E-Tech, will be notified that E-Tech is
      being used as part of the investigation process and the Association and employees, whose
      voice or image was captured by E-Tech, will be provided access to and provided copies
      of all of the E-Tech at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to any Internal Affairs Unit
      employee interview or disciplinary-type meeting that uses and/or relies upon any E-Tech
      as part of an allegation of policy violations and/or discipline investigation process.

      Employees will have the right to view all of their own E-Tech in order to complete their
      official duties (example: report writing).

      Audio and video recordings from E-Tech shall be provided and viewed by an involved
      employee, the Association and/or their legal representative during their representation of
      an employee. Except as allowed by state or federal law, non-department personnel shall
      not be allowed to review E-Tech information and/or recordings without the consent of the
      Sheriff or the authorized designee.


5.4   Use of Force and E-Tech. If the employee is giving a statement (oral, written or report)
      about use of force and the employee’s voice or image was captured by E-Tech, then the
      employee shall:

      A.     Have the option of reviewing their own E-Tech information and/or recordings in
             the presence of the employee’s attorney and/or Association representative; and

      B.     On a case-by-case basis, have the right to have the WCPOA, on behalf of the
             employee, engage in a collaborative discussion with the Sheriff or Sheriff’s
             designee about whether the Sheriff’s Office will provide pre-interview pre-report
             access to and review of other E-Tech that captured the employee’s image and/or
             voice during the incident and/or events that are the subject of the investigation;

      C.     Employees involved in a use of deadly force or critical incident will have the
             opportunity to review their own E-Tech information and/or recording(s) and any
             other E-Tech that captures their image or voice at least twenty-four (24) hours
             before giving a statement (oral or written). This does not prevent the Sheriff’s
             Office from requiring a public safety statement.

5.5   The usage of E-Tech systems for the below enumerated reasons are specifically
      prohibited because these usages of E-Tech deal with sensitive information and there is a
      higher risk that the usage of E-Tech for these enumerated prohibitions can cause harm.


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                              pg. 7
       The following usages of E-Tech are specifically prohibited:

       A.     Real-time and covert biometric identification.

       B.     Emotion analysis, or the use of computer vision techniques to classify human
              facial and body movements into certain emotions or sentiment (e.g., positive,
              negative, neutral, happy, angry, nervous).

       C.     Fully automated decisions that do not require any meaningful human oversight
              but substantially impact individuals.

       D.     Social scoring, or the use of algorithmic systems to track and classify individuals
              based on their behaviors, socioeconomic status, or personal characteristics.

5.6    The County and employees shall not submit any sensitive, confidential, or regulated data,
       or any personally identifiable data about members of the public or any County employee,
       to an E-Tech system without prior consent from the Sheriff or Sheriff’s designee.


                   ARTICLE 6 – EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY

6.1.   The County and the Association agree that the provisions of this Agreement shall be
       applied equally to all employees of the bargaining unit without discrimination as to race,
       color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, age, mental or physical disability
       which can be reasonably accommodated, or gender identity, as defined by federal and
       state law. Nor shall there be any discrimination against veterans, as defined by federal
       law. The County and the Association also agree to nondiscrimination in employment as
       defined by state law, which includes nondiscrimination because of marital status, family
       status, domestic partnership, juvenile record, union affiliation, on-the-job injury and the
       reporting by employees of unsafe working conditions or other protected status or activity
       in accordance with applicable state and/or federal law. Nothing in this section, however,
       shall be construed to prohibit actions taken because of bona fide occupational
       qualifications, seniority rights, or legitimate employer business necessity.

6.2.   The Association shall share equally with the County the responsibility for applying the
       provisions of the Agreement.

6.3.   Gender Reference.

       All references to employees in this Agreement designate all gender identities. Whenever
       gender is used it shall be construed to include all employees.

                           ARTICLE 7 – SCOPE OF AGREEMENT

7.1.   The parties acknowledge that during negotiations which preceded this Agreement, each
       had the unlimited right and opportunity to make demands and proposals with respect to
       any subject or matter and that the understandings and agreements arrived at by the parties
       after the exercise of that right and opportunity are set forth in this Agreement. Therefore,

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                   pg. 8
       for the life of this Agreement, the County and the Association each voluntarily and
       unqualifiedly waives the right and each agrees that the other shall not be obligated to
       negotiate collectively with respect to any subject or matter not specifically referred to or
       covered in this Agreement, even though such subject or matters may not have been
       within the knowledge or contemplation of either or both the parties at the time of the
       negotiation or signing of this Agreement.

                   ARTICLE 8 – EMPLOYEE & ASSOCIATION RIGHTS

8.1.   Employees shall have the right to form, join and participate in the activities of employee
       organizations of their own choosing, for the purpose of representation on matters of
       employment relations. Employees shall also have the right to refuse to participate in the
       activities of any employee organization. No employee shall be interfered with,
       intimidated, restrained, coerced, or discriminated against by the County or by any
       employee organization because of their exercise of these rights or because of their
       political affiliation.

8.2.   Membership.

       Paid membership or non-paid membership in the Association shall be the guaranteed
       individual choice of employees within the bargaining unit.

8.3.   Collection of Dues Deduction and Association Fees.

       A.     The County, when so authorized and notified by the Association, via email with a
              copy to the involved employee, or by an employee represented by the
              Association, will deduct regular Association dues from wages of the employee.
              Any authorization for payroll deductions of dues may be canceled by the
              employee upon written notice to the County and the Association prior to the 15th
              day of each month, to be effective on the first day of the following pay period.
              The County will make proper adjustments for errors as soon as practical. When
              necessary, in compliance with the PECBA, or when requested by the County, the
              Association will provide the record of dues deductions authorizations made to the
              Association by an employee.

       B.     The County, when notified by the Association, via email, will deduct Association
              assessed fees from an employee's wages via payroll deduction and remit such
              deduction to the Association. The Association's email notification to the County
              will include a copy of the employee's authorized fee deduction with a copy to the
              involved employee.

8.4.   Indemnification.

       The Association will indemnify, defend and hold the County harmless from all suits,
       actions, proceedings, and claims against the County or persons acting on behalf of the
       County, whether for damages, compensation, reinstatement, costs and/or fees or any
       combination thereof, arising from the County's application of and/or compliance with this


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                   pg. 9
       Article. In the event that any part of this Article should be declared invalid or that the
       monthly service fee should be ordered reimbursed to any nonmember, the Association
       and its members shall be solely responsible for such reimbursement.

8.5.   Bulletin Board.

       The County agrees to furnish up to ten (10) suitable bulletin boards in reasonably
       convenient locations. (These ten (10) bulletin boards will be for use by the Association
       for all Association bargaining units.) The board is for use by employees and the
       Association for matters of their collective concern. This bulletin board is to be
       maintained by the Association, including periodic clearing of outdated materials. Posting
       of notices and other material by employees is restricted to Association business and
       training or education announcements and shall be limited within County facilities to these
       Bulletin Boards. The Association may place notices in the members' mailboxes.

8.6.   New Hires.

       The County will notify the President of the Association, in writing, of all newly hired
       employees for positions in the bargaining unit within no later than ten (10) calendar days
       of the first working day of the new employee. Such notification shall include the name,
       mailing address, salary step, phone number(s), email address, position, and rate of pay of
       the new employee.

8.7.   Employee Orientations and Access to Bargaining Unit Employees.

       A.     Employee Orientations. At employee orientations, the County shall provide the
              Union with no less than thirty (30) minutes and up to one hundred twenty (120)
              minutes to make a presentation to all bargaining unit employees without undue
              interference. No employee shall suffer a loss in compensation or benefits as a
              result of participating in or attending the Association presentation.

       B.     When a bargaining unit employee is hired after the employee orientation or when
              the County does not conduct an orientation, the Association shall be permitted to
              meet with the newly hired bargaining unit employees for up to sixty (60) minutes
              during work hours without loss in compensation or benefits for the newly hired
              employee or for the designated representatives attending the meeting. Unless
              otherwise agreed, meeting with newly hired employees shall take place at the
              newly hired employee's regular work location, within thirty (30) calendar days
              from the date of hire.

8.8.   Association Access.

       Association representatives shall be allowed access to the employee work areas for the
       purpose of processing grievances or contacting members of the Association, however,
       such representatives shall not enter any work location without the consent of the
       supervisor. Access shall not be unreasonably withheld. Access shall not interfere with
       normal operations of the Office or with established safety or security requirements, and


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 10
        Association representatives will endeavor, to the extent reasonably possible, to conduct
        Association business at times and places which do not interrupt work.

8.9.    Association Business.

        Association officers selected to serve as authorized representatives shall be certified in
        writing to the County. Association representatives shall be granted time off without loss
        of regular pay for the purpose of meeting with the County within the scope of
        representation. The Association shall endeavor to give the County at least twenty-four
        (24) hours' written notice in advance when an authorized representative seeks time off
        with or without pay to conduct Association business.

8.10.   Attendance at Bargaining.

        No more than five (5) on-duty employees shall be permitted to attend negotiating
        sessions with the County without loss of regular pay. Notice shall be given to the County
        at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance of the anticipated absence. The dates, times
        and places for these negotiating sessions shall be established by mutual consent of the
        parties. Any Association member not scheduled to be on-duty during the negotiating
        sessions may adjust their shift in order to attend without loss of pay.

8.11.   Special Conferences.

        Special conferences for important matters may be arranged between the Association
        President and the County upon agreement of the parties. Such meetings shall be arranged
        in advance, and an agenda of matters to be discussed at the meeting shall be presented at
        the time the agreement to meet is made. Association members shall not lose time or pay
        for time spent in such conferences.

8.12.   Manual of Rules and Procedures and Collective Bargaining Agreement.

        The County agrees to make the County Personnel Policies Manual, the Sheriff’s Office
        Manual and this Agreement electronically available to all employees represented by the
        Association and to Association representatives. Additionally, any revisions to these
        manuals and/or this Agreement that involve mandatory subjects of bargaining or have
        impacts on mandatory subjects of bargaining will be made available and employees
        represented by the Association and Association representatives will receive email from
        the County notifying them of any revisions and will be responsible for reading all such
        revision emails.

                            ARTICLE 9 – MANAGEMENT RIGHTS

9.1.    It is recognized that an area of responsibility must be reserved to the employer if the
        County is to effectively serve the public. Except to the extent expressly abridged by a
        specific provision of this Agreement, it is recognized that the responsibilities of
        management are exclusively functions to be exercised by the County and are not subject
        to negotiation or grievance. By way of illustration and not of limitation, the following are
        listed as such management rights and functions:

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 11
        A.     The determination of the services to be rendered to the citizens served by the
               County.

        B.     The determination of the employer's financial, budgetary, accounting and
               organization policies and procedures.

        C.     The continuous overseeing of personnel policies, procedures and programs
               promulgated under any ordinance or administrative order of the County
               establishing personnel rules and regulations not inconsistent with any other term
               of this Agreement.

        D.     The management and direction of the work force including, but not limited to, the
               right to determine the methods, processes and manner of performing work; the
               determination of the duties and qualifications of job classifications; the right to
               hire, promote, train, demote, transfer and retain employees; the right to discipline
               or discharge for just cause; the right to lay off for lack of work or funds (subject
               to Article 33); the right to abolish positions or reorganize the departments or
               divisions; the right to determine schedules or work (subject to Article 10); the
               right to schedule employee vacations (subject to Articles 14 and 17); the right to
               purchase, dispose and assign equipment or supplies; and the right to contract or
               subcontract any work.

        E.     The County shall provide written notice of changes, modifications, alterations,
               additions, and deletions to current County policies and new County policies.
               During the term of a CBA when the parties are not engaged in CBA negotiations
               pursuant to ORS 243.698 et seq., WCPOA shall have fourteen (14) days to
               initiate a timely written demand to bargain pursuant to PECBA. During CBA
               negotiations, the County shall be obligated to bring proposed changes to policies
               or proposed new policies to the bargaining table in accordance with PECBA.

                              ARTICLE 10 – HOURS OF WORK

10.1.   The workweek shall be from 0001 (12:01 a.m.) Saturday through 0000 (midnight) Friday
        night. The regular hours of each workday shall be consecutive. The workday shall consist
        of a twenty-four (24) hour period. The first workday shall commence at the start of an
        employee’s regularly scheduled workweek. Employees who work the extra hour for
        daylight savings time (DST) shall be compensated for the extra hour they work for the
        time change. Employees who work an hour less than their regular work shift will either
        need to use an hour of vacation, holiday or comp time; or work an extra hour to
        compensate for the time change.

10.2.   An employee's normal work schedule shall, as determined by the Employer, consist of
        eight (8) consecutive hours per consecutive twenty-four (24)-hour period (a schedule of
        five (5) consecutive workdays and two (2) consecutive days off) or ten (10) consecutive
        hours per consecutive twenty-four (24)-hour period (a schedule of four (4) consecutive
        workdays and three (3) consecutive days off). In addition, a "flexible" work schedule
        may be utilized which shall be equal to forty (40) hours worked during the workweek but


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                pg. 12
        shall have no maximum or minimum number of work hours per day or workdays per
        week. Such flexible work schedule shall not be in effect unless agreed upon in writing in
        advance by the individual affected employee, the County, and WCPOA. Upon mutual
        consent of the Sheriff and the employee, employees may work an alternative nine/eighty
        (9/80) work schedule in a consecutive fourteen (14) day work period which must
        coincide with the County payroll period.

10.3.   Except in the case of an emergency or other circumstances beyond the control of the
        Sheriff’s Office, not less than two (2) weeks' notice will be given to the impacted
        employee and the Association prior to a change in the impacted employee's work
        schedule. The requirement of two (2) weeks' notice may be waived in writing by the
        impacted employee. If an employee's schedule is changed under this provision, the
        supervisor will notify the employee via County email upon the change in schedule.

10.4.   All employees' work schedules shall provide for rest and meal periods as follows:

           •   Criminal Records Specialist and Investigative Support Specialist: two (2) paid
               fifteen (15) minute rest periods in the middle of each half of the shift when
               reasonably practical, and one unpaid thirty (30) minute meal period in the middle
               of the scheduled workday when reasonably practical.

           •   Jail Services Technicians: one (1) paid fifteen (15) minute rest period and one (1)
               paid forty-five (45) minute meal period. Rest and meal periods are to be taken
               when reasonably practical.

10.5.   For all employees, if an employee attends training where the County does not have
        control of the schedule, the lunch period(s) at such training will be unpaid, unless the
        lunch period is part of the training and/or lunch is served as part of the training. Trainees
        who attend the new employee in service academy will have one-half (1/2) hour paid
        lunch.

10.6.   Seniority Shift Bidding.

        Subject to the considerations and provisions of Article 14 and this Section, shift selection
        shall be based upon Classification Seniority. At least thirty (30) days prior to March 1
        and September 1 of each year but not sooner than forty-five (45) days, employees will be
        given an opportunity, in order of seniority, to select desired shift and days off for each six
        (6) month period beginning March 1 and September 1. Shift and days off changes will
        normally be completed within the first two (2) weeks following September 1 and March
        1, respectively. The work schedules shall be posted and shall remain unchanged seven (7)
        days in advance of the new work schedule.

        This Section 10.6 is not intended to prohibit employees from trading shifts or days off
        with the Sheriff’s approval for good and just reason, such as class schedule related to
        employment, on other than the previously stated selection dates.

        An employee returning from a special team assignment to a seniority shift bid assignment


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                   pg. 13
        due to completion of the assignment, and such reassignment occurs in the middle of a
        seniority shift bid period or after the seniority shift bid has been completed, will be
        placed on a shift that is closest to the hours of work and days off of the specialty
        assignment.

        An employee returning from a special team assignment to a seniority shift bid assignment
        involuntarily or voluntarily due to discipline or documented performance issues will be
        placed on any available shift.

        A person voluntarily returning to a shift assignment, not due to discipline or documented
        performance issues from another assignment, will be assigned to a vacant position. A
        reasonable effort will be made to assign that person to the shift of their choice.

        There will be no bumping prior to the stated selection dates in the event an employee
        returns to a shift from a Special Assignment.

        An employee placed on critical incident leave shall continue their regular hours of work
        and days off subject to being called in for investigative or other purposes necessary to
        return the employee to regular duty.

10.7.   Accrual of Paid Leave.

        All hours paid by the County to an employee, in any form, (i.e. ILH, Administrative
        Leave, Vacation, Comp Time, etc.) count as hours of work. An employee will accrue
        leave in accordance with their pay status. For example, if an employee is on protected
        leave, the employee will receive a prorated number of hours of sick, vacation, and ILH
        leave based on their paid status. For payments made directly under PLO by the Oregon
        Employment Department to the employee, the County will calculate the hours equivalent
        and include those hours as paid time for leave earned calculation purposes. All paid
        leaves of absence, regardless of what they are called, that are paid by and through the
        County shall count as hours of work.

                                   ARTICLE 11 – OVERTIME

11.1.   Time and one-half (1.5x) the employee's regular hourly rate of pay shall be paid for
        authorized work under the following conditions, but compensation shall not be paid twice
        for the same hours:

        A.     Work performed in excess of eight (8) hours (5-8 workweek) or ten (10) hours (4-
               10 workweek), or nine (9) hours (9/80 schedule) per day, except when the work is
               performed as part of a flexible schedule as provided in Article 10, Section 10.2.
               However, work performed in excess often (10) hours per day shall still be
               compensated with overtime pay.

        B.     Work performed in excess of forty (40) hours in any workweek, shall receive
               overtime pay under this section; except employees on a 9/80 schedule, who shall
               receive overtime pay under this section for work performed in excess of eighty


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                pg. 14
               (80) hours in a fourteen (14) consecutive calendar day pay period. A pay period is
               defined as two (2) seven (7) calendar day workweeks (fourteen (14) consecutive
               calendar days).

        C.     Subject to the provisions of Article 12, work performed in the performance of an
               employee’s duties, other than during regular shift.

        D.     Subject to paragraph B above, work performed on a regularly scheduled day off,
               except when the day is worked in conjunction with a shift change, or with a shift
               adjustment to enable the employee to receive training, in which event overtime
               pay for work on a regularly scheduled day off shall not apply.

        E.     The County shall not decrease a work shift or split a work shift to avoid overtime.

11.2.   Overtime work shall be computed in fifteen (15)-minute increments; for example, work
        performed over seven (7) minutes in excess of the workday shall be compensated as one-
        quarter (1/4) hour of overtime, over twenty-two (22) minutes shall be compensated as
        one-half (1/2) hour of overtime, over thirty-seven (37) minutes shall be compensated as
        three-quarters (3/4) hour of overtime, etc.

11.3.   Employees are required to report all off-duty time worked. For purposes of compensating
        authorized off-duty communications to an employee, work performed will be rounded up
        in fifteen (15) minute increments at the employee's overtime rate of pay. A subsequent
        call that occurs outside of the initial fifteen (15) minute increment will be compensated as
        a separate fifteen (15) minute increment.

11.4.   The manager, supervisor, or commanding officer in charge of a division or a shift, or
        his/her designee, are the only individuals authorized to require overtime by subordinates.
        An employee shall be given at least two (2) hours' notice of mandatory overtime that the
        employee is ordered to work unless it is an unforeseen circumstance that could not have
        been identified earlier.

11.5.   Employees shall have the option to take overtime as compensatory time off or in cash
        payment, subject to refillable accumulation of forty (40) hours of compensatory time
        (refillable). Compensatory time shall be scheduled and taken off in accordance with the
        Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and subject to the provision listed in this Article.

        The County reserves the right to cash out anything in excess of twenty (20) hours in an
        employee's comp leave bank in the event the employee is promoted or becomes eligible
        for an incentive pay increase of at least four percent (4%).

        Compensatory time off requests (Comp Time) submitted in writing in excess of sixty-
        seven (67) days prior to the time requested shall be granted or denied in writing sixty (60)
        days prior to the time requested. Time off requests (Comp Time) submitted in writing
        between sixty-seven (67) days and fourteen (14) days prior to the time requested shall be
        granted or denied in writing within seven (7) days of receipt. Time off requests (Comp
        Time) submitted in writing less than fourteen (14) days prior to the time requested shall


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 15
        be granted or denied in writing within two (2) days of receipt.

11.6.   Safety Release.

        Employees actually working sixteen (16) or more hours in a twenty-four (24)-hour period
        of time shall be provided at least nine (9) hours of County-paid safety release time before
        beginning their next regularly scheduled shift. For purposes of calculating sixteen (16) or
        more hours, hours paid but not actually worked, such as mandatory call-back pay, do not
        count.

        A.     Notification Requirement. The employee shall advise an on-duty shift
               sergeant/supervisor as soon possible after the employee reaches twelve (12) hours
               of work and reasonably believes their shift could reach sixteen (16) hours and no
               later than one (1) hour before reaching the sixteen (16)-hour threshold, unless to
               do so is not feasible.

        B.     Safety Release Activated. Once an employee has worked sixteen (16) or more
               hours in a continuous twenty-four (24)-hour period:

               1.      The employee shall be released by a supervisor or OIC as soon as feasible.

               2.      The employee shall not be required to report to their next regularly
                       scheduled shift if that shift will commence nine (9) or fewer hours from
                       the time they leave work. Additionally, the employee shall be given
                       County-paid safety release leave for all unworked portions of that shift.
                       An employee on safety release who receives a work-related subpoena to
                       attend court or grand jury during their safety release shall be compensated
                       at their regular overtime rate for the time of their attendance during their
                       safety release time.

               3.      When determining whether the Safety Release threshold has been reached,
                       gaps between work periods of five (5) or fewer hours (i.e., shift and court,
                       shift and callout) shall be included in the sixteen (16)-hour threshold
                       calculation.

        C.     Voluntary Overtime. If an employee triggers the safety release clause as a result
               of working two (2) or more voluntary overtime hours in a continuous twenty-four
               (24)-hour period, the employee will be required to use their own accruals for the
               time away from their next regularly scheduled shift (instead of receiving County-
               paid safety release leave).

11.7.   Overtime Opportunities.

        Overtime opportunities for bargaining unit positions will be offered in the following
        order: (1) to full-time Association represented members working in the division the
        overtime is posted in; (2) qualified Association-represented employees out of the
        division, (3) to employees outside the bargaining unit.


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                   pg. 16
        Once scheduled, there shall be no opportunity to "bump" an employee from any of these
        assignments or work opportunities.

        Sufficient time must be allowed for bargaining unit employees to sign up for
        bargaining unit assignments, hours and overtime before offering it to non-bargaining
        unit employees.

        Sufficient time shall be defined as half (1/2) of the available time for overtime sign up.

                       ARTICLE 12 – CALL BACK AND COURT TIME

12.1.   Call-Back.

        Any employee who is approved and required to report to work from off-duty status on a
        regularly scheduled day off shall receive four (4) hours minimum and if it is outside their
        regular shift on a regularly scheduled workday, the employee shall be compensated for a
        minimum of three (3) hours of work at the rate of time and one-half (1.5x). When
        applicable, regular shift compensation shall not be paid in addition to compensation paid
        in accordance with this Article for the same hours of work.

        A.     Any employee who has previously been approved for discretionary leave, or
               protected leave, and is then subsequently required to report to work shall be
               compensated at time and a half (1.5x) for a minimum of three (3) hours and for
               every hour worked in excess of three (3) hours. The employee shall not be
               eligible to receive any other form of compensation for those hours worked and
               shall not have any time worked deducted from their discretionary leave accruals.

        B.     Employees are prohibited from requesting discretionary leave for the purpose of
               making themselves available to perform overtime work in another division or
               workgroup during the period of authorized leave.

        C.     Employees who perform work less than three (3) hours prior to the start of their
               regular shift shall not be eligible to receive a three (3)-hour call back minimum.
               Actual hours worked in these circumstances up until the commencement of the
               regular shift shall be compensated at time and a half (1.5x).

        D.     Any employee who is out on unscheduled unprotected sick leave but is
               subsequently required to report to work as a result of complying with a lawfully
               issued subpoena, shall be paid their applicable regular rate of pay for all hours
               that fall within what would have been the employee's regular shift. To the extent
               that the subpoena requires the employee to work during hours that are outside of
               what would have been the employee’s regularly scheduled shift, the employee
               shall be paid time and half (1.5x) or call back pay as applicable based upon the
               regularly scheduled shift.

        E.     Employees shall be prohibited from requesting discretionary leave for time where
               they have received advance written notice of an event requiring their mandatory
               attendance including but not limited to attendance required as a result of a

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                pg. 17
              lawfully issued subpoena. This does not prevent employee from taking
              discretionary leave after the mandatory event has concluded or prior to it
              beginning.

        F.    If an employee takes sick leave or FMLA/OFLA leave or other state or federal
              protected leave for a regular shift, and then voluntarily works an overtime shift
              within twenty-four (24) hours of the start of the regular shift that was missed, the
              employee's time will be flexed, meaning that the employee will be paid their
              applicable rate of pay for the time worked and the County will credit back the
              employee's leave time.

        G.    This Section 12.1 will not apply if an employee accepts call-back duty but is
              subsequently not available to report as assigned. However, if an employee accepts
              call-back duty, and such duty is subsequently cancelled by the County, the
              employee will receive the minimum four (4) hours of call-back pay as outlined in
              this Section 12.1. If a voluntary assignment was less than four (4) hours, and is
              subsequently canceled by the County, the employee will receive the number of
              hours for which they signed up.

12.2.   Court Appearance.

        A.    For the purpose of this Article, court appearance by an employee shall mean a
              court appearance or quasi-judicial or administrative agency hearing or appearance
              which is required because of the employee's official capacity with Washington
              County.

        B.    Any employee required to report for a court appearance more than three (3) hours
              before the beginning or more than three (3) hours after the end of their regular
              shift shall be compensated for a minimum of three (3) hours of work at the rate of
              time and one-half (l.5x). For the purpose of this Article, reporting time is deemed
              to be one (1) hour before a scheduled court appearance.

        C.    Any employee required to report for a court appearance three (3) hours or less
              before the beginning or three (3) hours or less after the end of their regular shift,
              shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half (1.5x) for the time elapsed
              between (1) the reporting time and the beginning of the regular shift, or (2) the
              end of the regular shift and the time the employee is released from the court
              appearance, whichever is applicable.

        D.    Any employee required to report for a court appearance on the employee's
              scheduled day off shall be compensated for a minimum of four (4) hours of work
              at the rate of time and one-half (1.5x). For the purpose of this Article, reporting
              time is deemed to be one (1) hour before a scheduled court appearance.

        E.    If an employee complies with all pertinent Office regulations prior to the date of a
              court appearance, and is notified on the day prior to the court appearance that the
              court appearance is still scheduled and the next day is a weekend day off, then the


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                  pg. 18
               employee shall be entitled to receive a minimum of two (2) hours of overtime
               (1.5x) even if the court appearance is thereafter canceled.

12.3.   Employees who are on off-duty status shall not be required to do work upon the
        completion of a specific call back or court appearance.

                  ARTICLE 13 – WORKING IN HIGHER CLASSIFICATION

13.1.   When an employee is assigned to fulfill the duties and responsibilities of a position in a
        classification higher than their own for a continuous period of more than four (4)
        workdays, they shall be paid at the next higher rate of pay according to promotional
        policy for all time worked while assigned in the higher classification.

13.2.   However, for training purposes, the Sheriff may assign an employee to a higher
        classification for a maximum of six (6) months with the consent of the employee. When
        the assignment is made for training purposes, it is exempt from the higher classification
        pay unless the employee is in the same assignment after the conclusion of or prior to the
        training assignment. Employees may not be assigned to a higher classification for
        training purposes when a vacancy exists in the classification.

                                    ARTICLE 14 – SENIORITY

14.1.   Definitions of Seniority.

        A.     "Office Seniority" means the length of service by the employee in all bargaining
               unit classifications occupied within the Sheriff’s Office cumulatively.

        B.     "Division Seniority" means the cumulative length of service by the employee in
               all bargaining unit classifications occupied within the employee's Division.

        C.     "Classification Seniority" means the length of service by the employee in the
               Sheriff’s Office within the employee's service classification.

        It shall be the responsibility of the Association to track employees' Classification
        Seniority.

14.2.   For purposes of Classification Seniority, a probationary employee shall be treated as the
        same classification.

14.3.   Subject to the reasonable operating needs of the Office, including its needs to utilize the
        special skills and expertise of employees to meet staffing requirements, Classification
        Seniority shall be the factor in the selection of shifts, days off, holidays and
        compensatory time off.

14.4.   The Sheriff’s Office will provide the Association access to an electronic file on the
        Sheriff’s Office electronic storage system where the Association and all employees
        represented by the Association can see and access this Seniority file. The Association
        shall be responsible for maintaining and updating the Seniority file.


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                  pg. 19
14.5.   Those employees performing Sheriff’s Office classification work as listed in Article 1
        (Recognition) and being funded from revenue other than County funds (e.g., federal or
        state funded jobs) shall accrue seniority regardless of the source of revenue they receive
        as a salary.

14.6.   In the case two (2) or more employees have the same seniority date, order of seniority
        will be determined by a method determined by the Association, for all purposes under
        this Agreement. The Association will provide written notice of the result to the Sheriff.
        An employee whose seniority date is adjusted by reason of demotion, suspension or leave
        of absence will retain priority over any employee or employees having the same seniority
        date.

14.7.   A person returning to a shift assignment from another assignment will be assigned to a
        vacant position, but reasonable effort will be made to assign that person to the shift of
        their choice.

14.8.   The County shall provide the Association with a membership list upon request, in a
        usable electronic format, but no more than once per month. The County shall provide the
        Association with written notice of new bargaining unit employees hired and of
        bargaining unit employees whose service has ended.

14.9.   Lateral Hires: The County will follow the Oregon Equal Pay Law, which recognizes
        experience and education, when establishing the pay rate for lateral hires.

                          ARTICLE 15 – UNIFORMS & EQUIPMENT

15.1.   Employees in the Criminal Records Specialist and Jail Services Technician
        classifications are required to wear a Sheriff’s Office uniform in compliance with
        Sheriff’s Office policy 251-R07. Such uniforms shall be furnished to the employee by the
        County. The cost of the uniform including initial tailoring of pants to make the uniform
        serviceable shall be paid by the County as follows:

        A.     For the JST classifications, the County shall provide the following uniform items
               upon initial employment:

               1.      Three (3) uniform shirts; two (2) pair of pants; one (1) sweatshirt; one (1)
                       jacket; and any other specific pieces required by the Sheriff’s Office as
                       part of the JST classification requirements. All items will be issued with
                       the Sheriff’s Office logo.

               2.      At the option of the employee, JST uniform shirts provided by the County
                       and worn by the employee may be black, grey or any primary color.

               3.      Except as set forth in this Article 15, the parties will adhere to the current
                       practice and JST Dress Code Guidelines and MOU.

               4.      For the JST classification, the County will provide each employee with a
                       taxable footwear allowance of one hundred and twenty-five dollars ($125)

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                   pg. 20
                       every year which shall be paid in the first pay period of December each
                       year. Effective January 1, 2026, the annual footwear allowance will
                       increase to one hundred and fifty dollars ($150).

        B.     Effective upon ratification, the CRS classification uniforms to be worn in
               Criminal Records shall comply with Sheriff’s Office policy 251-R07 and Records
               Dress Code Guidelines memorandum dated August 11, 2020, and the County
               shall provide:

               1.      Three (3) uniform shirts; one (1) sweatshirt; one (1) sweater or cardigan;
                       one (1) vest; and any other specific pieces required by the Sheriff's Office
                       as part of the CRS classification requirements. Any previously purchased
                       uniform items to wear, in compliance with Article 15. All items will be
                       issued with the Sheriff's Office logo.

        C.     For the ISS classification, employees will comply with the clothing and
               appearance requirements as is currently in effect in the Criminal Investigations
               Section.

15.2.   The County shall exchange/replace unserviceable items as needed upon receipt of the
        unserviceable item.

15.3.   The County shall reimburse employees for personal property reasonably and necessarily
        worn or carried when such property is stolen, damaged, or destroyed as a direct result of
        the employee's performance of their official duties. Reimbursement shall not be granted
        if the negligence or wrongful conduct of the employee was a substantial contributing
        factor to the theft, damage, or destruction. The employee must notify the District
        Attorney's office in writing seeking restitution for such property to qualify for the
        reimbursement benefits of this Section.

                     ARTICLE 16 – TIME OFF IN LIEU OF HOLIDAYS

16.1.   Employees shall accrue 4.31 hours per payroll period of Time Off In Lieu of holiday(s)
        (“ILH”).

16.2.   ILH shall be taken off in the same manner as vacation as described in Article 17,
        Vacation Leave.

16.3.   On the first full regular July pay period, any accumulated ILH time in excess of forty
        (40) hours shall be paid off in cash. The remaining forty (40) hours may be carried over
        to the next fiscal year.

16.4.   Any additional holidays which increase the accrual rates provided to any other
        represented employee employed by the County or non-represented employee employed
        by the County shall automatically be provided to employees represented by the
        Association.

                              ARTICLE 17 – VACATION LEAVE

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 21
17.1.   Upon hire, all full-time employees shall accrue vacation on the following basis:

        Number of                      Hours of Vacation Leave Per
        Payroll Periods                Payroll Period
        1 to 130                       3.6924
        131 to 260                     4.6154
        261 to 390                     5.5385
        391 to 520                     6.4616
        521 and over                   7.3847

        Effective the first full pay period in July 2026, a new vacation tier will be added as
        follows:

        Number of                      Hours of Vacation Leave Per
        Payroll Periods                Payroll Period
        651 and over                   8.0000

17.2.   Maximum Accrual.

        The maximum accrual of vacation leave for any employee shall be three hundred and
        eighty (380) hours. The Board of Commissioners may authorize individual exemptions to
        this limitation. When an employee's accrual exceeds three hundred and eighty (380)
        hours, the employee must use the excess time (over three hundred and eighty (380)
        hours) within ninety (90) days, at the mutual convenience of the County and the
        employee. When an employee leaves the employer's service, the employee will be paid
        for all accumulated, accrued vacation leave up to three hundred and eighty (380) hours.

17.3.   Vacation Selection.

        Where consistent with the reasonable operating needs of the Office, such as minimum
        levels of staffing, the desires of employees will be accomplished as set forth herein.

        There will be two (2) vacation signups during each year, to be conducted no sooner than
        seven (7) days after the completion of shift and days off selection, as follows:

        A.     At least seven (7) days after shift bids (as set forth in this Agreement), employees
               will be given two (2) opportunities, in order of seniority, to select a continuous
               block of vacation time, not to exceed the employees annual vacation accrual, for
               the six (6) month period beginning for March and September rotations. An Office
               vacation schedule will be determined, based on employee preference on the
               Division Seniority basis, and will be posted at the conclusion of the vacation bid.
               Employees may also state preferences for other blocks of vacation time within
               each six (6) month period, which will be granted by seniority or on a first come,
               first served basis, as set forth in Sheriff’s Office policy 405-R05.

        B.     Vacations which are bid and/or scheduled may be altered by mutual written
               agreement between the employee and supervisor, except that a previously


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                    pg. 22
               scheduled vacation may be altered by the Office if the employee has voluntarily
               changed to a different shift between the time the vacation was scheduled and the
               time it would otherwise be taken. Vacations not scheduled in this manner will be
               scheduled on a first come basis by mutual written agreement between the
               employee and supervisor. With the written approval of the employee's
               supervisor(s), employees may trade vacation schedules. Any such trade must be
               documented in writing by all involved parties.

        C.     When seniority between different classifications is involved, Division Seniority in
               the different classifications represented by the Association will be the determining
               factor provided that there will be no interference with the rights or prerogatives of
               the County under the Management Rights Article of this Agreement and non-
               represented employees may not be used as a basis to deny or alter the vacation
               selection process.

17.4.   Payment of Leave.

        An employee who is terminated or laid off shall be compensated for their accrued and
        unused vacation leave, in lieu of holiday leave (ILH), and compensatory time accruals. In
        the event of death, payment of vacation leave, in lieu of holiday leave (ILH) and
        compensatory time accruals, shall be made to the surviving spouse, and if there is none,
        then to the employee's designated beneficiary or estate.

17.5.   Donated Vacation or Holiday Hours.

        Employees may donate accrued but unused vacation or holiday hours to another
        employee under the following conditions: (1) The donation is truly voluntary; (2) the
        donating employee receives no payment for the donated time; and (3) the employee to
        whom the time is being donated has less than one hundred (100) hours of accrued
        vacation, holiday and sick leave; and (4) the employee receiving the donation must
        provide a health care provider certification (including estimate of time away from work)
        attesting to a serious health condition that would preclude the receiving employee from
        performing the duties of their job or attesting that the receiving employee is needed to
        care for a member of the employee's immediate family with a serious health condition or
        to care for the employee's immediate family as otherwise allowed by state or federal law.

17.6.   Time off requests (Vacation/ILH) submitted in writing in excess of sixty-seven (67) days
        prior to the time requested shall be granted or denied in writing sixty (60) days prior to
        the time requested. Time off requests (Vacation/ILH) submitted in writing between sixty-
        seven (67) days and fourteen (14) days prior to the time requested shall be granted or
        denied in writing within seven (7) days of receipt. Time off requests (Vacation/ILH)
        submitted in writing less than fourteen (14) days prior to the time requested shall be
        granted or denied in writing within two (2) days of receipt.

17.7.   Future Improvements.

        If the County improves Vacation Leave accruals, and/or increases the cap on Vacation


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 23
        accruals, for any non-represented hourly employees, bargaining unit employees will
        receive the same improvements.

                                  ARTICLE 18 – SICK LEAVE

18.1.   Employees shall accumulate sick leave at the rate of 0.0462 hours for each hour worked.
        Sick leave accumulated prior to the date of execution of this Agreement shall be credited
        to each employee's accumulated sick leave. The maximum accrual of sick leave for any
        employee shall be ninety-six (96) hours per calendar year. Any unused sick leave may be
        carried over and used in the following calendar year. Sick leave may be accumulated
        without limit. Except for conversion of sick leave benefits pursuant to the Public
        Employees Retirement (PERS) Act, sick leave shall not be paid upon termination or
        death.

18.2.   Use of Sick Leave.

        An employee who is unable to perform their duties by reason of personal illness or
        injury, pregnancy, necessity for health care, contagious disease or virus, or for any reason
        covered by applicable laws and statutes governing the use of sick leave may utilize their
        accrued sick leave.

        A.     In the event that an employee requires the use of sick leave for more than three
               (3) consecutive scheduled workdays, they may be required to provide verification
               from a health care provider, or other satisfactory evidence of the need to use sick
               leave.

        B.     Sick leave not to exceed five (5) consecutive days per incident shall be authorized
               because of illness in the employee's immediate family if the employee's
               attendance is necessary to help care for an immediate family member. Use of
               qualifying sick leave will be considered protected leave up to the amount allowed
               under the Family Medical Leave Act, the Oregon Family Leave Act, Paid Leave
               Oregon and other applicable laws and statutes governing the use of sick leave.

        C.     In the case of an employee's personal illness or injury, written notification should
               be given of the employee's intent to use accrued sick leave as soon as is practical.
               For a temporary absence covered by sick leave which is predictable, i.e., surgery
               or pregnancy, the employee shall give the County sufficient written notice to plan
               for staffing during the employee's absence and shall provide the County with a
               written statement from the employee's health care provider stating the date the
               leave is to begin. The employee shall notify the County in writing as soon as the
               employee's health care provider releases the employee to return to work.

        D.     As used in this Article, "immediate family" means the employee's spouse or
               spousal equivalent and their parents, stepparents, adoptive parents, foster parents,
               biological or adopted children, stepchildren, foster children, sisters, brothers,
               grandparents, grandchildren, whether or not residing with the employee, and
               father-in-law, mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 24
               in-law, and other close relatives who reside in the employee's household unless
               otherwise provided by law.

        E.     Employees who are taking qualified "parental leave" under the FMLA may elect
               to use up to the equivalent of twelve (12) weeks of accrued sick leave prior to
               using other accrued paid leaves. Once accrued sick leave has been exhausted, the
               employee will be required to use all other accrued paid leave (includes vacation,
               holiday (ILH) and comp time) for the duration of their qualified "parental leave"
               prior to beginning unpaid leave. The use of other accrued paid leave shall be
               designated by the employee. Upon exhaustion of all other accrued paid leave, an
               employee may elect to use any remaining accrued sick leave or may begin unpaid
               leave for the duration of their qualified "parental leave." The County will use a
               rolling forward calendar year when calculating available FMLA for the employee.

18.3.   Abuse of Sick Leave.

        Where there is probable cause to believe that an abuse of sick leave has occurred,
        either by patterns or extent of utilization, or otherwise, the employee suspected of
        abusing sick leave may be required to furnish a HCP’s certificate for each use of sick
        leave for a period not to exceed one (1) year. Prior to being required to furnish HCP’s
        certificates for each use of sick leave the Sheriff’s Office must conduct and full fair
        and complete investigation, pursuant to Article 31 and sustain an abuse of sick leave
        violation. In addition to the requirement to furnish HCP certificates for each use of
        sick leave, proven abuse of sick leave may be cause for disciplinary action including
        discharge. Due to HIPAA and privacy issues, all abuse of sick leave investigative
        materials will be provided by the County directly to the Association’s designated
        legal counsel rather than an Association-employee representative.

18.4.   Sick Leave Without Pay.

        Upon written application of an employee, sick leave without pay shall be granted by the
        County for the remaining period of disability after earned sick leave has been exhausted.
        Due to HIPAA and privacy issues, a copy of the employee’s application and/or the
        County’s denial/approval of the employee’s application will be provided by the County
        directly to the Association’s designated legal counsel rather than an Association-
        employee representative. The maximum amount of sick leave without pay allowable shall
        be determined on the following basis:

        Years of Service              Maximum Sick Leave Without Pay
        Less than 5                   Sixty (60) days
        5-10                          Ninety (90) days
        Over 10                       One hundred and twenty (120) days (with approval of
                                      Board of Commissioners)

        Satisfactory evidence may be required by the County the same as in Section 18.2A
        above.



Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                pg. 25
18.5.   Future Improvements.

        If the County improves Sick Leave accruals for any non-represented hourly employees,
        or employees in a bargaining unit that are not represented by WCPOA, WCPOA
        bargaining unit employees will receive the same improvements.

18.6.   Sick Leave Upon Separation.

        Paid sick leave is provided in the form of insurance against loss of income due to
        incapacitating illness or injury. No compensation for accrued sick leave shall be provided
        any employee separating from County service.

18.7.   Paid Leave Oregon.

        The State of Oregon requires that Washington County and its employees comply and
        contribute to Paid Leave Oregon to fund the state’s paid family, medical and safe leave
        benefits. Employees shall be responsible for the employee contribution as determined by
        state law.

18.8.   Immunization and Testing.

        If, in the conduct of official duties, an employee is exposed to serious communicable
        diseases which would require immunization or testing, the employee, upon prior
        notification to the supervisor, shall be provided immunization against or testing for such
        communicable diseases without cost to the employee where immunization may prevent
        such disease from occurring.

                                ARTICLE 19 – OTHER LEAVES

19.1.   Leave of Absence without Pay.

        A.     Leaves of absence without pay for a limited period not to exceed ninety (90) days
               may be granted by the Sheriff or designee for any reasonable purpose consistent
               with the needs of the Sheriff’s Office. Reasonable purpose may include time off
               for temporary disability after the employee's health care provider (HCP) has
               released the employee to return to work.

        B.     Request for such leave must be in writing and must provide reasonable
               justification for such request. Such leaves may be renewed or extended for any
               reasonable period of time, however, leaves of absence without pay in excess of
               ninety (90) days require a recommendation from the Sheriff or designee to the
               County Administrator or designee and require approval by the County
               Administrator or designee. No leave will be granted to any employee who accepts
               employment in any other capacity, except for military employment as provided by
               federal and/or state law.

        C.     A regular employee shall not be authorized a leave of absence without pay until
               all accumulated qualifying leave accruals have been applied toward payment for

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                pg. 26
              the absence.

19.2.   Jury Duty and Witness Appearances.

        A.    Employees shall be granted leave with full pay any time they are required to
              report for jury duty or as a witness related to their official duties with the County.
              All jury fees and witness fees will be remitted to the County. Should the
              employee's regular schedule be other than a day shift, the County shall reschedule
              the employee to a day shift for the duration of the employee's jury service. The
              County shall not incur any liability for adjusting the shift of an employee on jury
              duty. If an employee is excused or dismissed from jury or witness service at any
              time prior to the end of their assigned shift, the employee will contact their
              supervisor for instructions or assignment.

        B.    An employee shall be granted Leave with pay when required to report for jury
              duty or as a witness in cases in which the employee has no interest. The employee
              shall waive all witness fees or pay for jury duty, except mileage expense, unless
              the employee receives said compensation while on an authorized leave of absence
              without pay. County part-time employees will be granted jury or witness leave if
              the jury or witness duty coincides with the employee's scheduled hours.

        C.    An employee required to report for jury duty or as a witness may be excused, with
              approval from the employee's supervisor, from appearing for the employee's
              normal shift on that Workday if the jury duty or witness responsibility exceeds
              four (4) hours.

        D.    If jury duty or witness responsibilities continue for four (4) hours or less,
              employees on the day shift shall report for the remainder of their Workday.
              Employees on other than day shift shall have the number of hours spent on jury or
              witness duty deducted from their normal shift on that Workday and shall report
              for the first remaining hours of their work shift.


19.3.   Leaves of Absence Without Pay.

        A.    Leaves of absence without pay for a limited period not to exceed ninety (90) days
              may be granted by the Sheriff or designee for any reasonable purpose consistent
              with the needs of the Sheriff’s Office. Reasonable purpose may include time off
              for temporary disability after the employee’s health care provider (HCP) has
              released the employee to return to work.

        B.    Request for such leave must be in writing and must provide reasonable
              justification for such request. Such leaves may be renewed or extended for any
              reasonable period of time, however, leaves of absence without pay in excess of
              ninety (90) days require a recommendation from the Sheriff or designee to the
              County Administrator or designee and require approval by the County
              Administrator or designee. No leave will be granted to any employee who accepts


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 27
               employment in any other capacity, except for military employment as provided by
               federal and/or state law.

        C.     A regular employee shall not be authorized a leave of absence without pay until
               all accumulated qualifying leave accruals have been applied toward payment for
               the absence. Such leave will also result in a non-qualified pay period for each pay
               period in unpaid status.

19.4.   Leaves for Educational Purposes.

        A.     After completing one (1) year of service, the employee, upon request, may be
               granted a leave of absence, without pay, for educational purposes related to their
               employment, at an accredited school. The period of such leave of absence shall
               not exceed one (1) year, but it may be renewed or extended at the written request
               of the employee, when necessary, upon approval by the County.

        B.     Employees may also be granted leaves of absence with or without pay for
               educational purposes for reasonable lengths of time to attend conferences,
               seminars and other functions of a similar nature that are intended to improve or
               upgrade the individual's skill or professional ability, provided it does not interfere
               with the operation of the County.

19.5.   Military, Alternative Service, and Peace Corps Leave.

        A.     Military, alternative service and Peace Corps leave shall be granted in accordance
               with state and federal laws.

19.6.   Travel and Training Expense.

        A.     Food, lodging and travel expenses, or any of them, shall be paid by the County
               according to an approved per diem schedule and receipt of proper detailed County
               expense form, to an employee required to attend a conference or business meeting
               when the conference or business meeting is held at locations other than the
               employee's regular home or job location.

        B.     The County shall pay tuition and instructional material costs of any employee
               required by the County to attend a regular course of instruction. An employee
               who voluntarily attends a course of instruction which is directly related to the
               business of the County may receive tuition from the County if the employee has
               successfully completed the course of instruction, and prior to the employee
               attending the course of instruction, the County agrees in writing to pay tuition and
               costs.

19.7.   Workers' Compensation Supplement.

        A.     All employees are insured under the provisions of the Oregon State Workers'
               Compensation Act for injuries received during the scope and course of
               employment for the County. The day of the injury shall be considered a workday,

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                  pg. 28
            and employees will receive their normal salary for that day to include time being
            treated. If that treatment extends into time that exceeds the end of their scheduled
            shift, then overtime will be paid until the employee either returns to their assigned
            precinct to clock out/return equipment or the equipment is given to a fellow
            employee/supervisor and the employee is discharged from treatment. If the injury
            and subsequent treatment is completed prior to the end of their regularly
            scheduled shift, the employee will be paid straight time through the remainder of
            their shift. If the employee is admitted to the hospital, workers’ compensation
            rules apply. In order to receive workers' compensation leave, the employee must
            have completed the workers' compensation forms. A supervisor, or employee's
            designee, may complete the necessary forms and reports in the event an employee
            is incapacitated or unable to do so.

      B.    An employee who sustains any injury or illness compensable under the workers'
            compensation law, and is eligible for workers' compensation time loss payments
            (replacement wages), shall receive from the County regular straight time wages
            (including incentive or specialty pay, education pay and certification pay) for a
            period not to exceed one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days from the date
            upon which time loss payments commence. These wages will commence after the
            required three (3) day waiting period has been met and are calculated based upon
            the employee's regular working schedule exclusive of overtime. These County-
            provided wages are provided in lieu of time loss payments generally issued by the
            County's Workers' Compensation Third Party Administrator. If, after the one-
            hundred and eighty (180) calendar days period the employee is still eligible for
            time loss payments under workers' compensation law, the employee will begin
            receiving those time loss payments directly from the County's Third Party
            Administrator (TPA). In accordance with ORS 656 the employee receives
            compensation equal to sixty-six and two-thirds (66-2/3%) percent of wages,
            which is not taxable income. At the option of the employee, the employee may
            then use any accrued leave, in any order or combination, to cover the difference
            between workers' compensation payments and the employee's pay under the
            workers' compensation leave provision. Sick Leave without Pay shall be granted
            after all accumulated sick leave has been exhausted.

      C.    The employee may utilize workers' compensation leave provision only while
            receiving workers' compensation payments.

      D.    The employee shall be responsible for notifying their supervisor and County Risk
            Management, in writing, as soon as the employee is permitted to return to work
            on a limited or Full-time basis. Failure to notify the County may be cause for
            disciplinary action. Employees who are authorized by their HCP to perform light
            duty and who elect not to accept a light duty assignment shall not continue to
            receive the workers' compensation supplemental pay from the County. In
            addition, in conformance with applicable workers' compensation laws, non-
            acceptance of a light duty assignment by the employee after authorization and
            release by the employee’s HCP, may reduce or discontinue time loss benefits
            payable to and/or received by the employee.

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                              pg. 29
        E.     Employees shall not be required to use their own leave accruals for HCP
               appointments related to a workplace injury. Time spent traveling to and from and
               attendance at any HCP appointments related to a workplace injury shall be paid
               by the County, if such travel occurs during an employee regularly scheduled
               workday. Employees released to light or limited duty from a work-related injury
               will not be required to change shifts. However, if an employee declines a light
               duty or limited duty assignment, whether on the same or different shift, such
               declination by an employee may impact their payment under this Section 19.6
               and/or payment under ORS Chapter 656.

19.8.   Bereavement Leave.

        A.     An employee shall be allowed five (5) workdays off with pay for death and/or
               bereavement leave related to a death in the employee's immediate family or for a
               miscarriage. For purposes of this paragraph immediate family means the
               employee's spouse or spousal equivalent and their parents, step-parents, step-
               children, children, sister, brother, grandparents, and grandchildren, father-in-law,
               mother-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, son-in-law, and daughter-in-law
               whether or not residing with the employee, and other close relatives who reside in
               the employee's household.

        B.     An employee qualified for leave under the Oregon Family Leave Act (OFLA)
               will be allowed up to two (2) weeks of unpaid bereavement leave for the death of
               a family member qualified under OFLA, up to a maximum of four (4) weeks in a
               leave year. The two (2) weeks of bereavement leave granted is inclusive of any
               bereavement leave taken under this Section 19.7 and all bereavement leave must
               be completed within sixty (60) days from the date the employee was notified of
               the death of the family member. OFLA bereavement leave is to be taken in one (I)
               continuous block of time. An employee may choose to use any accrued leave
               during their OFLA bereavement leave.

        C.     Under exceptional circumstances, leave for death or bereavement may be granted
               by the Sheriff upon death of a relative other than the employee's immediate
               family. The County agrees to abide by any change in the law regarding
               bereavement leave.

19.9.   Governmental Appointments.

        An employee shall be granted full duty status whenever an employee is appointed to a
        position by the Sheriff, Washington County Commissioners, DPSST, the Attorney
        General, the Governor of the State of Oregon, or the President of the United States. The
        appointment must be related to an employee's official duties as an employee of the
        Washington County Sheriff’s Office.

19.10. Leave to Participate in Managed Care Organization (MCO).

        A.     The parties have agreed to establish guidelines for the participation of Association


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                pg. 30
            members with accepted workers' compensation claims that meet certain criteria in
            a Managed Care Organization (MCO) through the County's workers'
            compensation third-party claims administrator (TPA).

      B.    The goal of this MCO partnership is to help ensure employees are receiving the
            most appropriate and timely health care available, and to ensure that employees
            are receiving the best health care available for their work-related injuries. A MCO
            is a group of health care service providers that provide managed health care
            services to enrolled injured employees. Health care services and medical
            treatment for workers’ compensation claims are provided through participating
            care providers (physicians and/or other health care specialists (HCPs)). To ensure
            continuity of care, the County will arrange to contract MCO services with both
            Kaiser and Providence and will enroll the injured employee into the MCO based
            upon the employee’s selection of private medical insurance plan.

      C.    The intent of the MCO is to provide additional oversight and experience for the
            sole purpose of ensuring that injured employees receive the best health care and
            treatment possible, to maximize positive recovery outcomes and successfully
            return the employee to work. Further, the MCO is intended to ensure compliance
            with statutory requirements related to the administration of workers’
            compensation claims. The MCO partnership includes such things as: HCP
            recommendations that may better match an employee's treatment needs,
            recommendations of different treatment courses if current ones are not
            progressing toward recovery, or extending current treatment courses, all with the
            intent of promoting maximized health care improvement for injured employees.

      D.    At no cost to any employee, Washington County will enroll currently accepted
            and future workers' compensation claims in the MCO partnership program based
            upon the standard enrollment requirements set forth below. Standardized
            enrollment requirements for all employees will promote fairness and objectivity
            for affected employees. Employees will be enrolled in the MCO if their claim
            meets one (1) of the following criteria:

            1.     Primary Criteria. The injured employee will be enrolled in the MCO if
                   their HCP expects them to be fully off work for thirty (30) consecutive or
                   thirty (30) non-consecutive calendar days or more.

            2.     Secondary Criteria. The injured employee will be enrolled in the MCO if
                   they have not been released to full regular duty by their attending HCP
                   within ninety (90) consecutive calendar days from the date of injury or
                   date the injury was accepted for workers' compensation coverage,
                   whichever is later.

            3.     Alternate Criteria. For possible exceptions to the primary/secondary
                   criteria listed above, or for consideration of MCO enrollment on any claim
                   that warrants their inv6lvement, the County Risk Manager, in consultation
                   with the injured employee or the employee’s attorney and the injured


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                            pg. 31
                       employee's chosen HCP, reserves the right to make this decision based on
                       a review of available information. Such criteria could include, but is not
                       limited to, workers' compensation claims extending over multiple years or
                       continued HCP treatment for an injured employee over an extended period
                       of time that does not appear to be moving the injured employee toward
                       recovery.

               4.      Injured employees enrolled in Ready Rebound will NOT be subject to
                       MCO enrollment at any point during their claim.

        E.     Washington County may in its sole discretion elect to end the MCO program at
               any time and for any reason.

        F.     Participation by the Association-represented employees in the MCO program is
               not intended to abrogate any right or requirement pursuant to workers'
               compensation law.

        G.     On a quarterly basis Washington County shall provide to the Association
               President a list of the names of Association-represented employees that have been
               enrolled in the MCO program.

                 ARTICLE 20 – ADMINISTRATION OF THE SALARY PLAN

20.1.   The following rules shall govern the use of the salary ranges set forth in Schedule A,
        which is made a part thereof.

        A.     Oregon Equal Pay Law. All pay, to include regular wages and incentive pays will
               be determined in line with the provisions of the Oregon Equal Pay Law. The
               Oregon Equal Pay Act of 2017 (HB 2005) was introduced to reduce pay
               disparities and expand protections for employees who are subject to
               discriminatory pay practices. All decisions regarding employee pay must be made
               in compliance with ORS 652.220, which prohibits discrimination in the payment
               of wages for work. Compensation for work of comparable character and skill
               must be equitable and not discriminate against protected classes.

               However, the County agrees and specifically recognizes that exceptions exist in
               accordance with ORS 652.220 (2)(a)(A) (seniority system - which is set forth in
               this CBA) or ORS 652.220(2)(b) - where a collective bargaining agreement, such
               as this CBA, provides for different compensation levels.

        B.     Rates of Pay. Each employee shall be paid at one (1) of the steps of the range
               prescribed for the classification. Specifically, ORS 652.220 provides that pay
               rates for employees performing work of comparable character will be based upon
               one or more bona fide factors as follows:

               1.      A seniority system.

               2.      A merit system.

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                pg. 32
            3.     A system that measures earnings by quantity or quality of production,
                   including piece-rate work.

            4.     Workplace locations.

            5.     Travel, if travel is necessary and regular for the employee.

            6.     Education.

            7.     Training.

            8.     Experience.

            9.     Any combination of the factors described in the subsection above, if the
                   combination of factors accounts for the entire compensation differential.

      C.    For all purposes, an employee's anniversary date shall be the date the
            appointment, promotion or reinstatement occurs. However, changes in the wage
            rate shall be effective the first day of the payroll period in which the day of
            appointment or promotion occurs.

      D.    Merit Increases - Regular Employees. When the Sheriff determines that an
            employee has performed satisfactorily, the employee shall be granted an increase
            at the completion of twelve (12) months from the employee's anniversary date,
            and additionally, an increase to the next succeeding step of the range shall be
            granted upon satisfactory performance as determined pursuant to the Employee
            Performance Evaluation System for the twelve (12) months since the last in-range
            increase until the employee has reached the top of the salary range for the
            classification. The Performance Evaluation shall be subject to the grievance
            procedure only if it is the basis for withholding a merit increase or incentive pay.

      E.    Merit Increases - Variable Hour Employees. When a Variable Hour employee
            meets the overall job requirements, as determined by the Appointing Authority,
            the Variable-Hour employee will be granted an increase to the next step in the pay
            range for their assigned classification upon completion of:

            •      Two (2) years of continuous employment from the employee's anniversary
                   or hire date; and

            •      At least 1,664 hours worked.

            Subsequent increases to the next succeeding step of the range may be granted to
            Variable Hour employees upon completion of an additional two (2) years of
            continuous employment, measured from the date on which the Variable Hour
            employee received his/her last merit increase, and the employee has worked at
            least an additional 1,664 hours.

      F.    Promotions. A promotion is an appointment to a position in a classification which

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                             pg. 33
            has a higher maximum salary rate than the employee's present classification.
            However, the final pay will be determined by utilizing both methods listed below.
            The promotional pay shall be determined by the method that yields the higher pay
            rate.

            •      Human Resources will complete a salary analysis utilizing a Hiring
                   Compensation Decision Matrix and Compensation Request Form, which
                   is in accordance with the provision of the Oregon Equal Pay Law as set
                   forth in Section 20.1A and B. The Hiring Compensation Decision Matrix
                   and Compensation Request Form compares the employee's education and
                   experience with the minimum qualifications for the promotional position
                   and assigns an appropriate salary, hourly rate, or step in the new range of
                   the promotional position. A copy of the salary analysis will be provided to
                   the impacted employee and the Association President upon request.

            •      Human Resources will determine the salary, hourly rate, or step in the new
                   pay range that is closest to a five percent (5%) increase but is not less than
                   three percent (3%) above the employee's base pay rate immediately prior
                   to the date of promotion.

      G.    Voluntary Classification Demotion or Demotion in Lieu of Layoff. When a
            voluntary classification demotion or demotion in lieu of layoff occurs the
            employee's pay will be determined by a salary analysis in accordance with the
            provisions of the Oregon Equal Pay Law as set forth in this Article. The salary
            shall be within the salary range of the lower classification. The new salary may
            not be greater than the employee's regularly assigned salary prior to the demotion.
            A copy of the salary analysis will be provided to the impacted employee and the
            Association President upon request.

      H.    Involuntary Demotion and Demotion from Career Probation. Upon an involuntary
            demotion, disciplinary demotion, or a demotion from Career Probation, pay will
            be determined by salary analysis in accordance with the provisions of the Oregon
            Equal Pay Law as set forth in this Article. The salary shall be within the salary
            range of the lower classification. The new salary may not be greater than the
            employee's regularly assigned salary prior to the demotion. A copy of the salary
            analysis will be provided to the impacted employee and the Association President
            upon request.

      I.    In either a class demotion, a disciplinary demotion, or a salary demotion,
            regardless of whether it is voluntary or involuntary, the employee shall retain the
            same anniversary date.

      J.    Transfers.

            1.     Position Transfer. A position transfer is an appointment to a position in
                   the same classification and the employee's pay remains the same.



Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                              pg. 34
               2.     Classification Transfer. When an employee is appointed to a position in a
                      different classification which has the same pay range, the employee's pay
                      will be determined by a salary analysis in accordance with the provisions
                      of the Oregon Equal Pay Law as set forth in Article 20. The salary shall be
                      within the salary range of the new classification. The new salary may not
                      be greater than the employee's regularly assigned salary prior to the
                      transfer. The employee may be required to serve a probationary period of
                      twelve (12) months if the employee transfers into a classification not
                      previously held or where the employee had not previously attained
                      "Career Employee" status. However, the employee will retain the same
                      anniversary date. Should the employee not successfully complete the
                      probationary period, the employee shall return to the former position. A
                      copy of the salary analysis will be provided to the impacted employee and
                      the Association President upon request.

        K.     Range Changes. When a range is changed, the employee's pay is based on the
               same step of the new range as in the old. Such change shall not alter the
               employee's anniversary date.

        L.     Payment of Salary.

               1.     The Salary Step Schedule for each classification represented by the
                      Association is set forth as Schedule A. Unless indicated otherwise in
                      Schedule A, compensation shall be deemed to mean compensation per
                      month. All employees shall be paid on the basis of the ratio of the actual
                      number of days or hours worked, including authorized absences with pay,
                      to the total number of working days or hours, including authorized
                      holidays, in each month. Where appropriate, the hourly rate may be used
                      at set forth in the conversion schedule.

               2.     Payday shall be bi-weekly and in no case shall more than fourteen (14)
                      days of pay be held back.

               3.     In case an employee is laid off, quits or is discharged, the employee shall
                      receive their pay in compliance with state law.

                                ARTICLE 21 – INCENTIVE PAY

21.1.   All incentive pays will be governed by the provisions of the Oregon Equal Pay Law as
        referenced in Article 20 of this Agreement.

21.2.   Language Proficiency.

        Employees who meet the County standard for demonstrated skill in speaking a language
        other than English shall receive an additional five percent (5%) of base rate per pay
        period, provided there is a demonstrated business need as determined by the Sheriff. The
        County will continue to provide the language incentive for any language covered as of


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                pg. 35
        July 1, 2013. The County agrees that if it enhances its language proficiency policy to
        increase the incentive and/or to modify the testing to provide an incentive for
        conversational bilingual skills, it will provide the enhancements to the bargaining unit.

21.3.   Field Training Officer; Jail Services Technician and Criminal Records Classifications
        Only.

        Employees who are assigned to a specific recruit/trainee as field training officer (FTO)
        will be paid a FTO premium of seven percent (7%) of straight-time salary, exclusive of
        other premium or incentive pay, for the period of such assignment. The FTO premium
        will be inapplicable to any period during which the recruit/trainee is assigned to another
        employee and will not be duplicated during any period of a recruit/trainee's training.

         ARTICLE 22 – TRANSITIONAL (LIGHT) DUTY ASSIGNMENT AND PAY

22.1.   An employee who is unable to perform the regular duties of their position because of a
        compensable work-related injury or illness may be assigned by the County to other work
        which they are qualified and physically able to perform, whether such work is or is not of
        a type normally performed by employees in the bargaining unit. The County will make
        best efforts to retain the employee in their assigned shift days and hours.

22.2.   Nothing in this Article shall prohibit the County from offering a transitional duty
        assignment that is on different shift days and/or hours if the County determines this to be
        in the best interest of the County and the employee. Such positions or work assignments
        are temporary and at the discretion of the County. Employment in transitional duty shall
        not cause a reduction in the employee's regular compensation or benefits. The employee
        will receive their regular compensation and benefits while working in a modified or
        transitional duty assignment. The County reserves the right to discontinue or change any
        transitional duty at any time.

22.3.   If an employee’s work restrictions result from a work-related incident, the employee will
        have the choice between working their normal assigned hours and days or a modified
        schedule the employee and County mutually agree to. If the work restrictions result from
        a non-work-related incident, the employee may be offered a transitional work schedule
        mutually agreed upon between the employee and the County.

22.4.   Work schedule and compensation changes for a represented employee associated with
        work-related or non-work-related injuries shall be documented in writing and provided to
        the Association upon request.

                                      ARTICLE 23 – XXXX

                                          [RESERVED]

                     ARTICLE 24 – ASSOCIATION REPRESENTATIVES

24.1.   Members of the bargaining unit selected to serve as authorized representatives (E-Board
        members) shall be certified in writing to the Sheriff by the President of the Association.

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 36
        Representatives will normally be expected to perform Association business on their own
        time. When an E-Board meeting requires on-duty members' attendance, not more than
        four (4) total members across all three WCPOA bargaining units will be allowed to
        attend the meeting on duty time, unless it would create a hardship to the County. On-duty
        E-Board members shall be allowed no more than two (2) hours away from duty to attend
        E-Board meetings. With the approval of their respective supervisors, they may exceed
        two (2) hours, but shall use their own time or Association leave as authorized by the
        Association President.

24.2.   The Association's President shall be assigned a standard day shift and days off schedule
        within the President's Division as determined by the Association. If the Association votes
        to put its President on half-time Association-paid status, such election will be for a period
        of time determined by the Association, but not to exceed the duration of the Agreement.
        In such event, the Association's President will be placed on a half-time status for purpose
        of work schedule, full-time pay and benefits, provided the Association reimburses the
        County for one-half (1/2) of wages, incentive pay, and allocable fringe benefits costs.

24.3.   The Association shall be provided three hundred and fifty (350) hours of paid leave per
        year which shall be taken in increments no smaller than fifteen (15) minutes for
        Association business. An additional one hundred and seventy-five (175) hours of paid
        leave per year will be provided for on-duty Association Representatives who are
        representing an employee who is the subject of an investigation. This total amount is to
        cover work on behalf of all three WCPOA bargaining units.

        Association leave may be taken for any purposes attendant to the administration or
        negotiation of the contract, including attendance at negotiations, labor seminars, hearings
        before the Employment Relations Board, arbitration, fact-finding and mediation sessions,
        and any labor relation matters not covered in Section 24.1 or Section 8.10 of this
        Agreement as follows:

        A.     Except as provided in Paragraph B (below), requests for Association time shall be
               made at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance. Requests for Association time
               shall be granted when the request is made twenty-four (24) hours in advance.

        B.     Requests for Association time with less than twenty-four (24) hours' notice shall
               be subject to the reasonable operating needs of the County, including staffing
               needs. Provided that if the Association time is used for representation of an
               employee in an investigatory interview (internal investigations and pre-
               disciplinary hearings) and less than twenty-four (24) hours' notice of the interview
               is provided to the Association, the interview shall be rescheduled if an
               Association representative cannot attend the interview. The County shall
               immediately notify the Association President of requests for representation in
               disciplinary interviews. If the President cannot be reached, the notice shall be
               provided to the Association's Secretary-Treasurer. If the Secretary-Treasurer
               cannot be reached, then the notice shall be provided to a member of the
               Association's Executive Board.



Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                  pg. 37
        C.     All Association time must be documented by the individual(s) using the
               Association Time. Association time shall be submitted to the County each pay
               period by the individual(s) using the time.

        D.     The choice of who will represent the Association in a disciplinary or other matter,
               provided the employee desires such representation, shall reside solely with the
               Association.

        E.     In addition to the provisions listed in this Section 24.3, an employee participating
               in Association business, approved by the Association President or designee, may
               request to use their own accrued vacation, ILH, or compensatory time for
               Association activities and business. An employee who chooses to use such leave
               will not have such leave accruals denied if the leave request is made at least sixty
               (60) days in advance.

       ARTICLE 25 – WAGE & REIMBURSEMENT OVERPAYMENT & REPAYMENT

25.1    In the event an employee is either overpaid or underpaid by the County, each party has an
        obligation to report the error to the other party as soon as it is discovered. WCPOA will
        be informed when an overpayment or underpayment is discovered and of the final
        outcome of any overpayment or underpayment.

        The County, employee, and WCPOA will work collaboratively to correct the error.

25.2    In the event that an employee receives wages or benefits from the County to which the
        employee is not entitled, regardless of whether the employee knew or should have known
        of the overpayment, the County shall notify the employee in writing of the overpayment
        which will include information supporting that an overpayment exists and the amount of
        wages and/or benefits to be repaid.

25.3    The County shall be limited in calculating overpayments up to a maximum period of
        three (3) years before the notification. An employee who disagrees with the County’s
        determination that an overpayment has been made to the employee may grieve the
        determination through the grievance procedure.

25.4    For purposes of recovering overpayments the following shall apply:

        A.     The employee and the County shall attempt to reach mutual agreement on a
               repayment schedule within thirty (30) calendar days following written
               notification.

               1.     The employee may elect to have the entire overpayment recouped from
                      the next available payroll check following the discovery and verification
                      of the overpayment; or

               2.     The employee may elect to repay the overpayment in equal increments
                      over the same number of pay periods in which the error occurred. For

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 38
                       example, if an employee was overpaid by $100 per pay period for five (5)
                       pay periods, the employee may repay $100 per pay period during the next
                       five (5) pay periods after the error is discovered.

        B.     If there is no mutual agreement at the end of the thirty (30) calendar day period,
               the County shall implement the repayment schedule stated in the subsection
               (B)(1) below.

               1.      The overpayment shall be recovered in amounts not exceeding five
                       percent (5%) of the employee’s gross wages per pay period. If an
                       employee leaves County service before the County fully recovers the
                       overpayment, the remaining amount may be deducted from the
                       employee’s final check(s).

        C.     When the parties all agree to an overpayment amount to be repaid, the terms of
               the overpayment will be documented.

25.5    The Article does not waive the County’s right to pursue other legal procedures and
        processes to recoup an overpayment made to an employee at any time.

25.6    Underpayments. When an error is made that results in an underpayment of an employee’s
        pay by more than five percent (5%) of the employee’s gross wages due on the regular
        payday, the County will issue a check payment for the difference within three (3)
        business days of notification and verification (or mutual agreement) of the unpaid
        amount. All other underpayment adjustments will be made in accordance with the regular
        pay schedule.

                    ARTICLE 26 – MENTAL HEALTH & PHYSICAL FITNESS

 26.1    The Washington County Sheriff’s Office (WCSO) recognizes that the health and fitness
         of its employees is essential and is committed to fostering a culture of wellness to best
         serve its employees, their families, and the community. Increased employee wellness
         can lead to better decision-making, community interactions, and safety, which can lead
         to increased trust by members of the community. The goal is to enhance the physical,
         mental, emotional, social, and financial health for members while increasing
         organizational wellness, excellence, and efficiency. WCSO strives to increase readiness
         and resiliency, enhance morale, increase productivity, reduce sick leave use, and
         increase job and life satisfaction. WCSO is committed to furthering employee wellness.
         Participation in all Wellness Activities is strictly voluntary and only applies to all full-
         time employees. Employees must first successfully complete the Field Training and
         Evaluation Program (FTEP) or comparable onboarding to be eligible.

26.2    Wellness on Duty.

        Employees must remain in communication and available while participating in wellness
        activities. Employees who have been issued radios or cellphones must keep and monitor
        these devices while participating in wellness activities, unless otherwise approved by a

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                  pg. 39
       supervisor. Employees who have not been issued a communication device must ensure
       their supervisor has a reliable way to immediately contact them.

       A.     While engaged in wellness activities, employees must stay within close
              proximity, i.e., ten (10) minutes, of the precinct or County facility to which they
              have been assigned. Exceptions may be approved by a division
              commander/manager.

       B.     Staff logged into Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD) should indicate status as
              “Detail Unavailable” with notes about wellness time. All other employees must
              notify their supervisor before beginning wellness time.

       C.     Employees will log their wellness activity using the “Wellness” tab in PSWeb /
              PSWebGO. This data is used for the purpose of ensuring that wellness time and
              denial of wellness time is applied equitably.

26.3   On-duty Injuries Sustained During a Wellness Activity Covered Through Workers’
       Compensation: Any injury incurred while participating in an on-duty wellness activity
       may be considered an on-duty injury and may be covered through the Workers’
       Compensation process. All claims will be processed according to established County
       policies and procedures.

26.4   Wellness activity time may only be used during regular (non-overtime) work. Staff may
       not participate in wellness sessions while working overtime and overtime will not be
       permitted to facilitate wellness time.

                                  ALLOWED ACTIVITIES

26.5   Employees may use pre-approved venues for on-duty Wellness sessions. Pre-approved
       venues for on-duty wellness activities are the fitness centers and wellness rooms located
       at all WCSO facilities.

       A.     Employees who live within ten (10) minutes of their on-duty assignment may
              practice wellness activities at their home.

       B.     Employees who wish to run or walk outside of their assigned duty post will
              request permission from their supervisor.

                           WELLNESS SESSION ALLOTMENT

26.6   Employees May Receive a Maximum of Three (3) Sixty (60)-Minute Wellness Sessions
       Per Work Week: Each employee may be provided up to sixty (60) minutes per each
       wellness session for wellness activities and a total of no more than three wellness
       sessions per work week.

       A.     Wellness activities can include, but are not limited to, physical, mental, social,


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 40
              financial, intellectual, spiritual, occupational, or environmental well-being.
              Examples of wellness activities include but are not limited to, physical exercise,
              meditation, mental health services, creative artistic outlets, and wellness-related
              educational opportunities.

       B.     Wellness time cannot be broken into smaller intervals to cover more days or
              allow multiple sessions per shift.

       C.     Wellness time does not roll over from day-to-day or week-to-week.

       D.     Showering and changing clothes must be accomplished within the allotted
              wellness session.

       E.     Wellness time may not impact employee safety, supervisor communications, or
              attendance at shift briefings or training.

       F.     Employees are expected to either be participating in a wellness activity or be on
              duty as scheduled and may not utilize wellness time for other uses.

       G.     Wellness time has no cash value.

                              OVERSIGHT AND APPROVAL

26.7   The Sheriff or designee may discontinue any employee’s participation in Wellness
       activities due to documented performance issues.

26.8   Employees Are Not Guaranteed Time for Wellness: Wellness time and participation will
       be managed at the division/work group level, and each employee's direct supervisor will
       approve or deny daily permission to participate based on the operational needs of WCSO.

       A.     Consideration will be given to deployment, staffing, and activity level. Wellness
              time may be changed or canceled at the discretion of an on-duty supervisor and
              without recourse under the grievance procedure.

       B.     Nothing in this Article will supersede the operational needs of WCSO which
              includes meal breaks, calls for service, and other operational needs to keep the
              office functioning.

26.9   Physical Fitness Program Summary.

       A.     There are many aspects of physical fitness that can benefit employees, such as
              overall health and stress management, that the County would like to promote.
              Increased physical fitness prepares employees for the challenges of the job and
              can result in fewer on the job injuries.

       B.     The wellness program is voluntary and, as stated above, there will be no adverse
              effect on employment status or employment opportunities if an employee chooses

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                pg. 41
               not to participate.

                                     ARTICLE 27 – TRAVEL PAY

27.1.   Whenever an employee is required to report to work at any location other than their
        established place of work, or whenever any employer, as part of their regular work, is
        required to travel, they shall be paid for the use of their personal transportation at the
        current County rate.

27.2.   Commuting Time. The parties agree that commuting to work to a duty location within the
        normal commuting distance of the employee or within a thirty (30) mile radius of the
        employee's regular worksite, whichever is greater, does not constitute "hours of work"
        unless called to duty during the commute, regardless of whether the employee is utilizing
        a County or personal vehicle.

        A.     Commuting time to and from the assigned duty station, outside of regular work
               hours, does not constitute work hours unless called to duty or required to act. Any
               required action outside of regular work hours shall be compensated per this
               Agreement.

                            ARTICLE 28 – MANDATED BENEFITS

28.1.   Public Employees' Retirement System.

        A.     The County shall maintain the existing retirement plans - Public Employees
               Retirement System (PERS) and Oregon Public Service Retirement Plan (OPSRP)
               – for employees eligible to participate in the respective plans.

        B.     The County agrees to supplement retirement benefits for eligible employees by
               providing the sick leave credits as authorized by the Public Employees'
               Retirement System for members of the bargaining unit.

        C.     Effective the first full pay period in January 2026, the County agrees to begin
               paying the employee’s contribution to the Public Employees’ Retirement System
               (PERS pick-up), or to the Oregon Public Service Retirement Plan (OPSRP),
               whichever is applicable, at the applicable rate as authorized in the statute.

28.2.   Other Mandated Benefits.

        The County will provide social security, unemployment insurance and workers'
        compensation insurance coverage as required by state and/or federal law.

                                     ARTICLE 29 – INSURANCE

29.1.   Medical, Dental and Vision.

        The County agrees to provide employees a choice between the standard medical
        insurance plans for Providence or Kaiser Permanente; or a choice of reasonably


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                   pg. 42
      comparable overall benefits offered by other carriers. Coverage under these plans is
      subject to the carriers' eligibility requirements. The County agrees to provide dental and
      vision insurance, similar to coverage currently offered through Delta Dental or Kaiser
      Dental; or plans of other carriers offering reasonably comparable overall benefits, subject
      to the following:

      For the duration of this Agreement, the County will provide the following health
      insurance options:

      •      PPO: A High Deductible Plan, a Low Deductible Plan, and a High Deductible
             Health Plan with an added HRA VEBA Incentive Plan that is separate from
             Section 29.3 through Providence or a substantially similar plan with reasonably
             comparable overall benefit.

      •      HMO: A High Deductible Plan, a Low Deductible Plan, and a High
             Deductible Health Plan with an added HRA VEBA Incentive Plan that is
             separate from Section 29.3 through Kaiser HMO or a similar plan with
             reasonably comparable overall benefit.

      Employees enrolling in the High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) with an added HRA
      VEBA Incentive Plan that is separate from Section 29.3 will receive sixty percent (60%)
      of the Health Insurance cost savings in premiums between their similar level Low
      Deductible Plan and their High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) with an added HRA
      VEBA Incentive that is separate from Section 29.3. The sixty percent (60%) Health
      Insurance cost savings in premiums shall be calculated for each employee for each plan
      year during the term of this CBA as follows:

      2026 Insurance Rates:

      The monthly Low Deductible Plan Premium Rate minus the monthly High Deductible
      HRA VEBA Plan Premium Rates multiplied by .60 (60%) equals the amount of cost
      share deposited to employee’s HRA VEBA account each month.

      The funds associated with the employee’s sixty percent (60%) will be deposited during
      the first pay period and second pay period of each month into the employee’s standard
      HRA VEBA account established through Washington County pursuant to Section 29.3.
      The sixty percent (60%) cost savings premium deposits for each eligible employee will
      occur twice (2x) per month in alignment with insurance contribution deductions already
      scheduled through payroll deductions. This contribution will only occur for the length of
      time an employee has opted into a plan that provides that the employee will receive the
      sixty percent (60%) premium savings contributed into their VEBA account. Couples and
      partners that work for the County and that both opt into the High Deductible Health Plan
      (HDHP) with an added HRA VEBA incentive Plan will both be eligible to receive the
      sixty percent (60%) premium savings contributed into each of their respective VEBA
      accounts.

      The County and the Association agree to participate in the County Wellness Points


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                              pg. 43
        Committee, of which up to four (4) members will be appointed by the Association to
        represent the ECU and SSG and SGT bargaining units. This work group will seek
        information and input from the County's benefits consultant as the work group
        determines the wellness point system. In the event the work group is unable to reach a
        consensus on the wellness point system, the system shall be determined by the County
        and will be subject to interim bargaining with the Association under ORS 243.698,
        except that the interim bargaining period shall be forty-five (45) days beginning from the
        date that the County provides a written proposal to the Association, that at a minimum
        includes plan and design changes and economic impacts/effects.

        Each plan under the PPO and HMO will have its own established rate based on actuarial
        cost of the plan. The County's maximum contributions for medical, dental and vision will
        be ninety percent (90%) for the plan and tier selected by the employee, and the employee
        will contribute ten percent (10%).

        For those employees that meet the Wellness Points requirement, the County's maximum
        contribution for the combined benefits that make up medical, dental, and vision will be
        ninety-five percent (95%) for the selected plan and tier by the employee, and the
        employee will contribute five percent (5%).

        To qualify for the lower employee premium contribution rate (reduced from ten percent
        (10%) to five percent (5%), the employee is required to meet wellness point requirements
        as determined by a work group of the County Wellness Points Committee. Wellness
        points earned in each calendar year will determine the employee's premium contribution
        rate for the following calendar year.

        Should the County determine that health insurance premiums may increase by ten percent
        (10%) or more over the preceding year, either the County or the Association may use
        ORS 243.698 et seq. to reopen and bargain concerning the restructuring of contribution
        rates and/or a restructuring of benefit plan design, except that the mid-term bargaining
        period shall be forty-five (45) days beginning from the date that the County provides a
        written proposal to the Association, that a minimum includes plan and design changes
        and economic impacts/effects.

        The County acknowledges and agrees that the County also has an obligation to bargain
        with the Association pursuant to ORS 243.698 about the impacts/effects of any changes
        to mandatory subjects of bargaining that are not deemed to be reasonably comparable to
        the overall benefits in the current health and welfare benefits and/or health and welfare
        plan designs. However, the parties agree that the expedited bargaining period shall be
        forty-five (45) days beginning from the date that the County provides a written proposal
        to the Association, that at a minimum includes plan and design changes and economic
        impacts/effects.

29.2.   Opt-Out Provision.

        The County will provide a contribution to a VEBA account in the amount of three
        hundred dollars ($300) per month (equally divided and paid on the first two (2) pay


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 44
        periods of the month only) for eligible employees that choose to opt out of the County's
        medical insurance plan. In order to qualify for the Opt Out contribution, the employee
        must provide proof that they are covered by another qualified group health plan that
        meets the minimum value requirements set forth under the Affordable Care Act.

29.3.   Standard HRA VEBA Account (VEBA)

        A.     County Contribution. The County agrees to establish a VEBA account for each
               eligible employee. The County will contribute eighty-five dollars ($85) per month
               to each eligible employee's VEBA account.

        B.     Employee Contribution. The Association may authorize further deductions in
               increments of twenty-five dollars ($25) dollars per month, as authorized by the
               Association in writing, for all bargaining unit employees during the course of this
               Agreement. Further deductions shall require a majority vote of the Association
               membership. All amounts so deducted shall be credited to each bargaining unit
               member’s Standard HRA VEBA account.

               This section is in addition to and does not replace the County contribution
               previously negotiated.

        C.     Definition of Eligible Employee. For purposes of this provision, the term "eligible
               employee" shall mean an employee who completes the VEBA enrollment process
               and is enrolled in one of the County's medical plans or other qualified group
               health plan.

        Funds in the Standard HRA VEBA Member Account shall only be used for member
        health insurance premiums or health care expenses, as allowed by law. There shall be no
        individual Association member election/option available to take any such amounts in
        unrestricted cash.

        VEBA accounts are administered in accordance with Internal Revenue Code Section
        50l(c)(9). The employee, and not the County, shall be responsible for any tax due on non-
        qualified distributions from their VEBA accounts.

29.4.   Life Insurance.

        The County shall provide each employee with fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) life
        insurance coverage with a double indemnity provision throughout the term of this
        Agreement.

        If an employee dies on duty, the County will provide continuing medical/dental/vision
        coverage for the employee's spouse or domestic partner and/or dependents for a period of
        forty-eight (48) months, or until the employee's spouse or domestic partner is eligible for
        Medicare, whichever is earlier, unless the spouse or domestic partner and/or dependents
        is or becomes enrolled in an alternative medical/dental/vision insurance plan.



Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                pg. 45
29.5.   Long-Term Disability.

        The County shall provide each employee with a long-term disability plan to insure a
        maximum of sixty (60%) percent of their pre-disability base earnings or $2,500,
        whichever is less. This insurance will provide salary protection following the first ninety
        (90) days of continuous total disability or the period during which the employee receives
        sick leave benefits, whichever is longer.

29.6.   Insurance Improvements.

        In the event that any other County bargaining unit or non-represented employee receives
        health insurance improvements covered under Article 29.1 during the term of this
        Agreement, WCPOA members will receive a comparable improvement.

29.7.   Tort Claim Defense and Indemnification.

        The County shall defend and indemnify employees covered by this Agreement against
        claims and judgments incurred in or arising out of the performance of their official
        duties, subject to the limitations of the Oregon Tort Claims Act, ORS 30.260 et seq.

29.8.   The County intends to establish a County-wide health benefit committee during the term
        of this Agreement to explore options to the issues of health benefit cost containment and
        benefit levels. This work group will seek information and input from the County’s
        benefits consultant and provides recommendations for the County with respect to benefits
        plan design. In the event the work group is unable to reach a consensus regarding benefits
        plan design, such benefits shall be determined by the County and will be subject to
        interim bargaining with the Association under ORS 243.698. However, the parties agree
        that the expedited bargaining period shall be reduced to forty-five (45) days. The
        Association will be afforded four (4) representatives on the committee to represent the
        SSG, SGT, and ECU bargaining units, without loss of pay.

29.9.   Deferred Compensation.

        If the County implements a Deferred Compensation Plan for any non-represented hourly
        employees, bargaining unit employees will participate in the same Deferred
        Compensation Plan.

                                ARTICLE 30 – PERSONNEL FILE

30.1.   If derogatory material is placed in an employee's personnel file, a copy of such material
        shall be furnished to the employee within seventy-two (72) hours. Each employee may
        respond in writing to any item placed in that employee's personnel file and that response
        shall become a part of the file.

30.2.   Any employee and the Association, upon written request, shall have access to an
        individual's employee personnel file, within three (3) County business days of the
        request, and may reproduce such personnel file in full or in part at no cost to the
        employee and/or the Association if the cost of reproduction is less than fifty dollars

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                    pg. 46
        ($50).

30.3.   Employee personnel files, working files, health care records and IA files will be
        maintained as confidential records to the full extent allowed by law. No portion of an
        employee's file shall be transmitted outside the County without the employee's and
        Association's consent and knowledge, without authorization by a court of competent
        jurisdiction, or in response to a valid subpoena. If an employee's information is going to
        be released, the County shall provide seven (7) calendar days' written notice to the
        employee and the Association prior to release.

30.4.   Written copies and materials to be provided to the employee and the Association
        pursuant to this Article shall be provided by electronic means, either via email or on a
        portable "thumb/jump" drive furnished at no cost to the employee and the Association if
        the cost of reproduction is less than fifty dollars ($50).

                         ARTICLE 31 – DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE

31.1.   A.       Discipline shall be limited to oral reprimand, written reprimand, demotion,
                 suspension and discharge or, with the written concurrence of the employee and
                 the Association, an alternative form of disciplinary sanction. Removal from a
                 specialty assignment or collateral duty that has incentive pay associated with it as
                 a result of discipline must have a documented nexus to the underlying
                 misconduct.

        B.       Disciplinary action shall be progressive in nature but may be imposed at any
                 level as determined by the severity of the conduct involved and all relevant
                 circumstances. Notice of disciplinary action (other than oral reprimand) shall
                 be in writing and given to the employee, with a copy to the Association when
                 the issuance occurs. No career employee shall be disciplined without just
                 cause. “Just cause” for discipline shall be determined in accordance with
                 ORS 243.808, 243.809, 243.812, OAR Chapter 265, and ORS 236.350 et seq.
                 Oral reprimand shall be documented in writing stating that it is an “oral
                 reprimand” and such documentation shall be contemporaneously provided to
                 the employee and the Association.

31.2.   If the County has reason to discipline an employee, it shall be done in a manner that will
        not embarrass the employee before other employees or the public.

31.3.   A.       Internal investigations will be conducted in accordance with WCSO Policy.
                 Conduct described in the OAR Chapter 265 discipline matrix is a Class 1
                 allegation.

        B.       The Association may designate up to two (2) representatives to participate in
                 any interviews conducted with the subject of the investigation who is in a
                 classification represented by the Association whether the interview be of a
                 subject, witness or complainant. The Association may not designate a
                 representative who is a subject of, the complainant, or a potential witness in,


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                   pg. 47
            the investigation.

      C.    The County shall notify WCPOA of any investigation pertaining to an
            employee represented by WCPOA. WCPOA shall have at least forty-eight
            (48) hours to speak with the employee prior to any interview of the employee.

            1.     If an employee in a classification represented by the Association declines
                   Association representation, WCPOA may inform the employee that their
                   decision to participate in an interview without the Association present
                   cannot be used or relied upon by the employee in any future meetings or
                   actions against the Association as a basis to claim the Association did not
                   execute or perform the Association’s Duty of Fair Representation for the
                   employee.

            2.     When the employee is interviewed, WCPOA will be present for the
                   beginning of the recorded interview. WCPOA may request, on the record,
                   that the employee sign a written acknowledgement and waiver confirming
                   what is set forth in Section 31.3.C.1. If the employee still declines
                   representation, WCPOA will be excused prior to continuing with the
                   interview.

            3.     Upon continuing the interview, the interviewer will ask the employee to
                   confirm that they decline the opportunity to have an Association
                   representative, and that they were presented with a waiver form by
                   WCPOA.

      D.    If WCPOA is not present at the interview due to the employee’s request, the
            County will electronically record the interview(s) and will provide WCPOA a
            copy of the electronic recording and associated documents within twenty-four
            (24) hours of the conclusion of the interview. If any “confidential”
            information is involved or used in the interview, including but not limited to
            medical records/information, all “confidential” information and documents
            shall be timely provided to the Association attorney unredacted through a
            confidentiality agreement.

      E.    The Sheriff’s Office will not use or designate an investigator that is known to
            be a complainant or potential witness in the investigation of a Class 1
            allegation, an investigation covered by OAR Chapter 265 and/or an
            investigation that likely will result in economic discipline.

      F.    The designated Association representative may not be required to disclose, or
            be subject to discipline for refusing to disclose, information related to matters
            received from the employee in the course of representing the employee in the
            investigation.

      G.    At least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the interview, the interviewer will
            inform the employee who is the subject of the investigation, and/or any


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                               pg. 48
               witness employee represented by the Association and the Association
               representative(s), about the allegations being investigated. The interviewer,
               the Association and the employee being investigated and/or interviewed may
               audio and video record the interview of a Class 1 allegation, an investigation
               covered by OAR Chapter 265, or an investigation that, if sustained, may
               result in economic discipline.

        H.     Within seventy-two (72) hours of the conclusion of the audio/video recorded
               interview, the County shall upload the recording to the WCPOA Dropbox
               link/account referenced in Article 31.13.

        I.     All Class 1, OAR Chapter 265 discipline matrix investigations, and/or an
               investigation that, if sustained, may result in economic discipline that are
               audio/video recorded shall be transcribed by the Sheriff’s Office (for the
               subject interview) and an electronic copy of the transcription shall be
               uploaded to the WCPOA Dropbox link/account referenced in Article 31.13 at
               least seven (7) days prior to any pre-disciplinary meeting associated with the
               audio/video.

        J.     The County will notify the Association, the complainant, and the affected
               employees when a request to extend any of the time frames related to a Class
               1 or Class 2 investigation is granted and the reason for the extension.

        K.     The County will follow applicable Oregon Administrative Rules (OAR) for
               retention of internal investigation files.

        L.     Prior to any changes in the internal investigation procedures, input will be
               solicited from the Association, and changes that are mandatory subjects of
               bargaining or that have mandatory impacts shall be subject to bargaining
               requirements under ORS 243.650 and ORS 243.698, et seq.

        M.     At least seven (7) calendar days prior to a represented employee’s pre-
               disciplinary meeting, associated with a Class 1 or Class 2 investigation, the
               County shall provide a complete copy of all materials in the possession of the
               County related to the Class 1 or Class 2 investigation. None of the
               information and/or materials provided may be redacted by the County;
               however, with mutual agreement, the County and WCPOA may enter into
               confidentiality and protective agreements as to use and/or disclosure of the
               PECBA information and materials the County provides to WCPOA.

31.4.   If a supervisor is interviewing an employee on a matter that may lead to discipline, the
        supervisor shall inform the employee and the employee’s Association representative. If
        present, that the interview may lead to discipline.

31.5.   Oral and Written reprimands older than five (5) years shall not be considered relevant for
        disciplinary purposes, if the employee has not received any further disciplinary action
        during that time period. Such Oral and Written Reprimands shall have a “stale” notation


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 49
        attached to them and retained in the employee files in accordance with state law.

31.6.   A.     Pre-disciplinary meetings shall be offered by the County prior to the issuance of
               any discipline greater than a written reprimand or any discipline associated with
               OAR Chapter 265. The employee and/or Association, on behalf of the employee,
               may accept or decline the offer and such pre-disciplinary meeting will not be used
               to compel answers from the employee.

        B.     Typically, only one (1) form of discipline may be imposed for each
               disciplinary investigation/action. However, the parties recognize that the
               discipline of employees who are in special assignments or assigned collateral
               duties may include removal from the special assignment or collateral duty in
               addition to the traditional forms of discipline listed in Section 31.1.A. If the
               Sheriff or designee is considering the imposition of a traditional form of
               discipline AND removal or suspension from a special assignment or
               collateral duty, the pre-disciplinary notice provided to the employee and the
               Association will clearly indicate this.

        C.     When a video-recorded interview is relied upon by the decision maker to be
               evidence in making the proposed discipline determination, the basis for
               reliance on the video recording shall be described and substantiated by the
               decision maker so that the subject employee and/or the Association are able
               to assess whether to address it as part of the pre-disciplinary meeting.

31.7.   After the time for the pre-disciplinary hearing has passed, and after the County has
        considered any pre-disciplinary meeting information presented by the Association and/or
        the employee, if the County has decided to terminate an employee, the County shall
        notify the employee and the Association in writing of the specific effective date of the
        termination and in the discipline decision issued the County will include the date that the
        County believes any Step 2 potential grievance challenging the discipline would be
        initially due from the Association and/or the terminated employee. In the event the
        County has decided to terminate an employee, the County shall impose a two (2) week
        unpaid suspension prior to the effective date of the termination, unless the parties
        mutually agree to extend the timeline, in writing. Any work during the two (2) week
        unpaid suspension required or directed by the County will be paid time to the employee
        based upon the call-back minimum time per this Agreement, except that employees will
        not be paid for any time spent returning County-owned equipment. All County-owned
        equipment must be returned by the employee to the County prior to the end of the two (2)
        week unpaid suspension.

31.8.   A disciplinary suspension will not impact an employee's health care benefits and/or
        insurance coverage.

31.9.   Alert Witness (Brady List) Referral.

        A.     Employees who are placed on the Washington County District Attorney’s
               Office Alert Witness list (Tier 1 Brady List) – and as a result will not be


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 50
               called to testify as a witness – (Brady v. Maryland, 373 U.S. 83 (1963)) shall
               be laid off due to the inability to perform an essential function of their job.
               WCPOA shall not grieve or otherwise contest the layoff action.

        B.     Any disciplinary information transmitted by the County or Sheriff’s Office to
               DPSST or to a prosecutor’s office will be contemporaneously provided to the
               Association.

31.10. All final economic discipline and all discipline covered by OAR Chapter 265 must
       contain an analysis by the disciplinary decision maker that addresses all applicable
       mitigating and/or aggravating factors, that led to the discipline imposed.

31.11. At the conclusion of any Class 2 investigation where the subject is an Association
       represented employee, upon the request of the Association, the County shall provide the
       Association with a complete copy of the investigation.

31.12. At the conclusion of any discipline investigation process, and when the County/WCSO
       have issued their discipline decision, the County/WCSO shall contemporaneously
       provide to WCPOA any and all information transmitted and/or communicated to DPSST,
       or any Prosecutor’s office.

31.13. For the purposes of receiving any materials, PECBA information, documentation, or
       evidence related to this Agreement and the labor relationship between the County/WCSO
       and WCPOA, WCPOA will establish a DROPBOX link/account into which the
       County/WCSO will send/submit materials, PECBA information, documentation, or
       evidence. The County/WCSO obligations as to disclosure and/or notice to the
       Association per this Agreement will be satisfied so long as the County/WCSO
       contemporaneously sends an email associated with the placement of material or PECBA
       information or evidence into the DROPBOX link/account provided and established by
       the WCPOA for use by the County/WCSO.

                         ARTICLE 32 – GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

32.1.   Any grievance or dispute which may arise between the parties, regarding the application,
        meaning or interpretation of this Agreement, may be settled as set forth below.

        Step 1: The employee and/or the Association may take up the grievance or dispute within
        fourteen (14) calendar days of its occurrence; or within fourteen (14) calendar days of
        when the employee should reasonably have become aware of the occurrence. The
        grievance shall be reduced to writing, setting forth its basis. The employee's immediate
        supervisor shall then attempt to adjust the matter and respond to the WCPOA within
        fourteen (14) days in writing. The immediate supervisor is the lowest level management
        person with the authority to independently adjust the grievance. A disciplinary action
        involving discharge, demotion, or suspension of greater than one (1) day taken against an
        employee may be grieved by the Association and/or the employee at Step 2 of the
        grievance procedure.



Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 51
        Step 2. If the grievance has not been settled at Step 1, the grievance may be presented in
        writing by the Association to the Sheriff within fourteen (14) calendar days after the
        response from the immediate supervisor is due. The Sheriff shall respond to the
        Association in writing within fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt of the grievance.

        Step 3. If the grievance remains unadjusted, the grievance may be presented in writing by
        the Association to the County or its designee, within fourteen (14) calendar days after the
        response of the Sheriff is due. The County or its designee shall respond in writing to the
        Association within fourteen (14) calendar days after receipt of the grievance.

        Step 4. If the grievance still remains unadjusted, only the Association and not the
        employee may, within fourteen (14) calendar days after the reply of the County is due,
        serve notice of the Association's intention to arbitrate the grievance. Such notice shall be
        in writing and delivered to the County Administrator.

        Nothing in Steps 1 through 4 above shall constrain or restrict WCPOA and the
        County from meeting to discuss any grievance, so long as the timelines for each step
        are adhered to or waived by mutual agreement.

32.2.   A.     After either party has indicated its desire to take a grievance to arbitration, it shall
               request the Employment Relations Board for a list of names of seven (7) Oregon
               arbitrators. The parties shall select an arbitrator from the list by such method as
               they may jointly elect or, if they are unable to agree on such method, then by the
               method of alternative striking of names under which the party striking the first
               name shall be determined by lot.

        B.     Nothing in this section shall prohibit the parties from mutually agreeing upon
               an arbitrator from the list provided by ERB, a permanent arbitrator or
               permanent list or any other mutually agreed upon arbitrator. The Arbitrator's
               decision shall be final and binding, but the Arbitrator shall have no power to
               alter, modify, add to or detract from the terms of the Agreement. The
               Arbitrator's decision shall be within the scope and terms of the Agreement
               and in writing. The Arbitrator's remedy shall be limited in retroactivity to a
               period of ninety (90) days prior to the filing of the grievance or the date of the
               initial matter that triggered the grievance whichever is longer. The Arbitrator
               fee and expenses shall be borne by the losing party as determined by the
               Arbitrator. If the Arbitrator determines neither side is the losing party, the
               Arbitrator may apportion the fee and expenses between the parties. All other
               expenses shall be borne exclusively by the party requiring the service or item
               for which payment is to be made.

        C.     If either party desires a verbatim recording of the proceedings, it may cause
               such a record to be made, provided it pays for the appearance fee, record and
               makes a copy available without charge to the Arbitrator. If the other party
               desires a copy, both parties shall jointly share in all appearance fees and the
               costs of producing three (3) copies of the transcript. In lieu of a court
               reporter, the parties can agree to audio record the proceedings and then have


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                    pg. 52
                  the audio record transcribed.

        D.        The Arbitrator’s decision shall comply with ORS 243.808 et seq and OAR
                  Chapter 265. If the Arbitrator remands the discipline to the decision maker,
                  any subsequent arbitration of the matter will be continued before the same
                  Arbitrator.

        E.        The Arbitrator shall issue their arbitration decision within thirty (30) calendar
                  days of close of the hearing or receipt of the post-hearing briefs, if briefs are
                  filed.

        F.        The parties may mutually agree to oral closing arguments, and such shall be
                  transcribed as part of the record and provided to the Arbitrator as soon as
                  practical.

32.3.   Oral and/or written reprimands may not be grieved. However, within fourteen (14)
        calendar days of its receipt, a written rebuttal may be submitted by the reprimanded
        employee and/or the Association to the Sheriff for review and filing in the investigation
        filed with the reprimand. The Sheriff’s decision on review is not subject to appeal.

32.4.   Time lines specified in this Article may be waived or extended only upon mutual written
        agreement of the parties.

                               ARTICLE 33 – LAYOFF AND RECALL

33.1.   Layoff.

        A.        Classification to Be Reduced. The County shall determine the classes and
                  numbers of positions to be affected by layoff. The Sheriff shall request the
                  Personnel Department to prepare a layoff list for each classification to be reduced.
                  The Personnel Department shall supply the Association with copies of seniority
                  and layoff lists for each classification not less than twenty-one (21) calendar days
                  before the effective date of layoff.

        B.        Layoff List. In the event of layoff, employees shall be laid off in the inverse order
                  of their classification seniority as defined in Article 14.

        C.        Notification of Layoff. In every case of layoff of an employee, the employee and
                  the Association shall be notified in writing twenty-one (21) calendar days before
                  the effective date thereof. The notice shall state (1) the effective date of layoff, (2)
                  that the layoff is for reasons not reflecting discredit on the employee, and (3) that
                  the employee has the right to bump, but must exercise this option within seven (7)
                  calendar days of notification of layoff.

33.2.   Bumping.

        A.        Bumping Rights. An employee, in a classification represented by the Association,
                  who is laid off may "bump" to an equal or lower classification in the bargaining

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                       pg. 53
                  unit, provided that the employee is qualified for the work involved and has greater
                  seniority in the bargaining unit than the least senior employee in the classification
                  the employee seeks to bump into.

        B.        Bumping Restricted to Classification Groups. Bumping shall be permitted only
                  within classification groups represented by the Association.

        C.        Requests to Bump. Employees to be laid off shall submit written requests to bump
                  to the Sheriff with a copy to the Association within seven (7) calendar days of the
                  date of official notification of the layoff. The County shall notify the employees
                  and the Association in writing whether bumping requests are granted or denied. If
                  denied, the reasons shall be stated. If a Written request to bump is granted, the
                  employee bumped shall, in tum, acquire the rights under this Section.

        D.        Bumping into the Bargaining Unit. A non-bargaining unit employee has no
                  bumping rights to displace a represented employee. If a vacancy exists, any
                  eligible employee may voluntarily be placed into a bargaining unit position for
                  which they qualify.

33.3.   Recall.

        Employees shall be recalled from layoff in the reverse order in which they were laid off
        provided the employee is qualified. The term of eligibility for recall of a laid-off
        employee shall be eighteen (18) months from the date of layoff. If an appointing
        authority refuses to reinstate a laid-off employee certified to a vacancy in a classification
        for which the employee qualified, the refusal shall be deemed a dismissal, and shall be
        subject to the provisions concerning discharge and discipline in this Agreement.

33.4.   Rate of Pay on Appointment from Layoff List.

        When an individual is appointed from a layoff list to a position in the same class in which
        the person was previously employed, the employee shall be paid at the same salary step
        at which such employee was being paid at the time of the layoff. The employee shall
        begin to accrue benefits and status toward merit increases as if there has been no break in
        service.

33.5.   Removal of Names from Recall List.

        A.        The Human Resources Division may remove the name of a person from a recall
                  list if the laid off employee fails to return to work within sixteen (16) calendar
                  days from actual written notice of the recall. Actual notice shall consist of written
                  notice sent by certified mail.

        B.        The failure by the employee to return to work within twenty-one (21) calendar
                  days of the sending of written notice of recall by certified mail shall result in the
                  employee's name being removed from the recall list.

        C.        The County shall notify the Association in writing upon the sending of any

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                      pg. 54
               certified mail notice in Section 33.5.A of the names, addresses and telephone
               numbers of the employees receiving such notices. The County shall also provide
               the Association with copies of all layoff notices upon the sending of such notices.

        D.     Employees on the recall list must advise the County of any changes in address or
               telephone numbers.

        E.     Vacation Leave.

               1.      An employee who is laid off will be paid for unused vacation leave at their
                       regular rate of pay, provided the employee has completed at least six (6)
                       months of service and is eligible for vacation benefits. An employee's rate
                       of accrual for vacation leave will remain the same as it was at the time of
                       layoff upon reappointment from the recall list.

               2.      Employees who wish not to be paid for accrued vacation time when laid
                       off may request this in writing to the Human Resources Division at least
                       three (3) calendar days before the last day worked. The accrued vacation
                       days will be held for a maximum of eighteen (18) months from layoff.
                       Requests for payment of accrued vacation days must be submitted in
                       writing to the Human Resources Division. Vacation time not paid to the
                       employee will be restored in the same manner as sick leave (See Section
                       33.5 F) upon reappointment from the recall list.

        F.     Sick Leave. Employees who are laid off will retain their accrued sick leave during
               the time they are on the recall list. Accrued sick leave will become available for
               use upon reappointment from the recall list. Sick leave is lost when the term of
               eligibility for recall expires.

        G.     Seniority. Laid off employees retain, but do not continue to accrue, seniority
               during the time they are on the recall list. Seniority is lost when the term of
               eligibility for recall expires.

        H.     Insurance. County paid insurance is discontinued on the last day of the month in
               which the layoff occurs. Laid off employees may continue to self-pay for health
               insurance benefits and coverage for up to eighteen (18) months, under certain
               conditions, if the employee pays the premium. Federal COBRA laws also apply to
               allow laid off employees to continue coverage.

        I.     Salary Administration. Upon reappointment from a recall list, an employee shall
               receive the same step in the salary range that the employee was on when laid off
               or demoted. The anniversary date of a recalled employee will be adjusted so that
               the time spent on layoff or in a lower level classification will not count toward
               merit increases.

                       ARTICLE 34 – NO STRIKE AND NO LOCKOUT

34.1.   The Association agrees that during the term of this Agreement there shall be neither

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                    pg. 55
        strike nor work slowdowns.

34.2.   During the term of this Agreement there will be no lockout of employees represented by
        the Association by the County. There shall be no lockouts on the part of the County nor
        suspension of work on the part of the employees. This Agreement is guarantee that for
        the duration of this Agreement, there will be neither strikes nor lockouts and that all
        complaints, grievances or disputes arising under its provisions will be settled pursuant to
        this Agreement’s grievance procedure and/or PECBA dispute resolution processes.

                               ARTICLE 35 – SAVINGS CLAUSE

35.1.   If any Article or Section of this Agreement or any addition thereto shall be held invalid
        by operation of law, or by any lawful tribunal having jurisdiction, or if compliance with
        or enforcement of any Article or Section should be restricted by such tribunal, the parties
        shall enter into immediate collective bargaining negotiations for the purpose of arriving
        at a mutually satisfactory replacement agreement under the terms of ORS 243.702. The
        purpose of the negotiations shall be to restore to the parties the benefits of the bargain
        reached by this Agreement before any section of this Agreement was declared unlawful
        or unenforceable. The parties agree that this collective bargaining agreement will not
        serve to restrict the County's obligation to comply with federal and state law concerning
        its duty to reasonably accommodate individuals with disabilities.

                                    ARTICLE 36 – TRAINING

36.1.   For classifications that have mandatory training, the Sheriff’s Office and the County will
        establish a training schedule for each fiscal year during the term of this Agreement. It is
        agreed that training will be provided by the Office and shall be required.

36.2.   The parties recognize that flexibility in scheduling is needed to provide training to
        bargaining unit employees. An employee's work schedule may be changed on seventy-
        two (72) hours' notice if such change of schedule is necessary due to unanticipated
        circumstances in order to provide the employee with a training opportunity which has
        previously been scheduled or on short notice becomes available. The seventy-two (72)
        hours' notice may be waived in writing by an employee.

36.3.   For purpose of training, a short-term shift change may be required if an employee is
        scheduled to work before and/or after the training. The employee must have a minimum
        of eight (8) hours' rest between the training and the employee's regularly scheduled shift.
        If there is less than eight (8) hours between the training and the employee's regularly
        scheduled shift, the employee will be compensated at a rate of time and one half (1.5x)
        for the number of hours under the eight (8)-hour minimum rest period.

        If training is less than four (4) hours, the employee will be compensated at a rate of time
        and one half (1.5x) for the actual training time.

        If the employee is scheduled to work before and after the training, one of the following
        applies:


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 56
        A.     If the training is more than four (4) hours and there are eight (8) or more hours
               between the end of the employee's regularly scheduled shift and the start of the
               training period, this training period will be considered a temporary shift change
               and the employee will be working the training shift in lieu of the employee's
               following regularly scheduled shift.

        B.     If the training is more than four (4) hours and there is less than eight (8) hours
               between the end of the employee's regularly scheduled shift and the start of
               training, the employee will not work the employee's shift closest to the training
               and will be compensated at a rate of time and one half (l.5x) for the number of
               hours under the eight (8) hours minimum required between the training and the
               shift worked.

36.4.   An employee's performance in training which is required and provided under this Article
        may be considered in periodic performance evaluations which may lead to loss of
        incentive pay.

                       ARTICLE 37 – DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING

37.1.   Statements of Principle.

        The County and the Association jointly recognize that the use of drugs and alcohol,
        whether on or off the job or “recreational” purposes or otherwise, which adversely affects
        job performance, constitutes a serious threat to the health and safety of the public, to the
        safety of fellow officers, and to efficient operation of the Office.

37.2.   Preconditions to Testing.

        Before any employee may be tested for drugs and/or alcohol, the County must meet the
        following prerequisites.

        A.     All employees represented by the Association must be clearly informed of
               what drugs, substances, and/or alcohol are prohibited by the employer.

        B.     Any testing policy which is applied to any employee represented by the
               Association must be applied to all Sheriff’s Office personnel.

        C.     The County and the Association shall jointly select the laboratory or
               laboratories which will perform the testing. Every two (2) years a list of
               laboratories shall be maintained that the parties have agreed upon.

37.3.   Grounds for Testing.

        A.     Random drug testing of any kind is prohibited unless required by State or
               Federal law.

        B.     The performance of drug and/or alcohol testing by means other than the
               taking of a urine sample or breathalyzer is prohibited, for purposes of this


Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                 pg. 57
               Article.

        C.     Drug and/or alcohol testing is prohibited unless the County possesses facts
               that give rise to a reasonable suspicion that an employee is currently or has
               recently been engaging in the use of illegal drugs or is noticeably impacted
               such as to be unable to perform the essential functions of their position or is
               a health and/or safety risk to their co-workers and/or the public.

        D.     Testing will be conducted in accordance with the Sheriff’s Office drug and
               alcohol free workplace policy 209 and Class 1/Class 2 Complaint
               Investigations policy 551.

37.4.   Testing Mechanisms.

        The following testing mechanisms shall be used for any drug test performed on an
        employee represented by the Association:

        A.     Any initial screening test for controlled substances shall be conducted using
               a method recognized by state guidelines for workplace drug testing.

        B.     Any positive result from the initial screening test shall be confirmed using
               Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GS/MS) or an alternative method
               recognized as equally or more reliable by federal or state authorities.

        C.     In the event that a more reliable testing method becomes available, the
               Association and the County may mutually agree to use the more reliable
               testing method or, alternatively, the Association may immediately initiate
               ORS 243.698 et seq. bargaining with the County.

37.5.   Procedures to be Used When the Sample is Given.

        The following procedure shall be used whenever an employee is requested to give a urine
        sample and an Association representative/observer, designated by the Association, will
        be present with the employee throughout the process and procedures:

        A.     Prior to testing, the employee will be required to list all drugs currently being
               used by the employee on a form supplied by the County. This form, and all
               documents and information concerning drug testing, shall remain confidential
               pursuant to the terms in Section 37.7 of this Article.

        B.     A urine sample will be taken of the employee. The test shall be given in such
               a manner as to protect the authenticity and reliability of the sample and the
               privacy of the tested employee.

        C.     Immediately after the sample has been given, the test sample will be divided
               into two (2) equal portions. Each of the two (2) portions of the sample will be
               separately sealed, labeled, and stored in a secure and refrigerated atmosphere.
               One (1) of the samples will then be sent or delivered to a testing laboratory

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                    pg. 58
               mutually agreeable to the Association and the County.

        D.     The sample sent or delivered to the testing laboratory will first be tested using
               the screening procedure set forth in Section 37.4.A of this Article. If the
               sample tests are positive for any prohibited drug, the confirmatory test
               specified in Section 37.4.B of this Article will be employed.

        E.     If the confirmatory test is positive for the presence of an illegal drug, the
               employee and the Association designated representative will be notified of
               the positive result within twenty-four (24) hours after the County learns of the
               results and will be provided with copies of all documents pertinent to the test
               sent to or from the County by the laboratory. The employee and/or the
               Association will then have the option of having the untested sample
               submitted to a laboratory of the employee’s and/or Association’s own
               choosing. The County will be given a copy of the results from this testing.

        F.     Each step in the collecting and processing of the urine specimens shall be
               documented to establish procedural integrity and a chain of evidence.

37.6.   Consequences of Positive Test Results.

        The Association on behalf of a represented employee and/or an employee who tests
        positive shall have the right to challenge the accuracy of the test results. Such employee
        shall be subject to unannounced testing for a period of one (1) year following the
        inception of treatment. If the employee violates the terms of treatment or again test
        positive during such period, the employee shall be subject to immediate discharge.

37.7.   Employee Rights.

        A.     The employee shall have the right to an Association representative designated
               by the Association present up to and including the time the sample is given.
               Nothing herein shall restrict the employee’s right to representation under
               general law.

        B.     If at any point the results of the testing procedures specified in the Article are
               negative, all further testing shall be discontinued. The employee and the
               Association will be provided a copy of the results, and all other copies of the
               results (including the original) shall be destroyed within twenty-four (24)
               hours after the test results have been received by the County. All positive test
               results will be kept confidential, and will be available only to the Sheriff, a
               representative designated by the Association, and the employee.

        C.     The Association and an employee who tests positive shall be given access to
               all written documentation available from the testing laboratory which verifies
               the accuracy of the equipment used in the testing process, the chain of custody
               of the specimen and the accuracy rate of the laboratory. If the results of the
               drug test are negative, the Association shall have the right to challenge
               whether reasonable suspicion existed for the ordering of the test. In such a

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                   pg. 59
               case, the Arbitrator shall have the power to fashion a remedy that is
               appropriate under the circumstances. If the results of the drug test are positive,
               neither the Association nor the employee shall have the right to challenge
               whether reasonable suspicion existed for the ordering of the test.

37.8.   Prohibited Conduct.

        A.     The following conduct is prohibited, unless lawfully allowed as part of an
               official job function or specifically allowed by another Sheriff’s Office policy:

               1. Possessing, selling, purchasing, distributing or using/consuming any
                  controlled substance;

               2. Reporting for work or working under the influence of alcohol or
                  controlled substances including a BAC result of any detectable amount of
                  alcohol;

               3. Abusing any controlled substance which is lawfully prescribed for the
                  employee’s use (i.e., by taking it contrary to the employee’s HCP
                  instructions, or by unlawfully obtaining it for the purposes of abuse);

               4. Failure to report use of prescribed medication or over-the-counter drugs
                  that may affect the employee’s ability to safely perform assigned duties;

               5. Failure to report reasonably known exposure or reasonably known
                  unintentional ingestion of a controlled substance so that appropriate
                  medical steps may be taken to ensure the employee’s health and safety;

               6. Failure to comply with “reasonable suspicion testing” and other directives
                  required by the County for enforcement of this Policy. Examples may
                  include tainting, tampering or diluting samples, refusal to test, falsifying
                  information on testing forms, delaying attendance at a testing location,
                  etc.; or

               7. Employees who consume alcohol as part of their work duties shall not do
                  so to the extent of impairing on-duty performance.

        B.     Employees are required to report known violations of this Policy. Any staff
               having a reasonable basis to believe that other staff may be illegally using,
               possessing, or under the influence of any controlled substance or alcohol
               while on duty shall immediately report the facts and circumstances via the
               chain of command.

        C.     It is not a violation of this Article for an employee, while functioning as a
               caregiver/provider for a family member (as defined by FMLA), to follow the
               recommendations, orders or authorizations of an HCP, and to lawfully obtain
               and/or possess a medically prescribed controlled substance for the benefit of a
               family member under the care of an HCP.

Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                                  pg. 60
                  SCHEDULE A – WASHINGTON COUNTY PAY PLAN

   Effective the first full pay period in January 2026




   Effective and retroactive to the first full pay period in January 2026, adjust
   straight time hourly rate of pay by one percent (1.0%) Cost of Living Adjustment
   (COLA) for all Association employees in this bargaining unit.

   Effective the first full pay period in July 2026, adjust straight time hourly rate of
   pay by three percent (3%) for all employees in the bargaining unit.

   Effective the first full pay period in July 2027, adjust straight time hourly rate of
   pay by three percent (3%) for all employees in the bargaining unit.




Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)                              pg. 62
                 APPENDIX 1 – 2026 HEALTH INSURANCE AND BENEFITS




Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)      pg. 63
Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)   pg. 64
Washington County / WCPOA SHERIFF’S SUPPORT GROUP (2025-2028)   pg. 65
