            YAMHILL COUNTY



                  and



            YAMHILL COUNTY

JUVENILE DETENTION WORKERS ASSOCIATION

              (“YCIDWA”)



              AGREEMENT



              July 1, 2023

                through

             June 30, 2026




                                   BO.   aa-3aR
                                                      Table of Contents




ARTICLE 1 — SCOPE OF AGREEMENT AND RECOGNITION. .......ccssessessssessessereesseanesrerteanennecn sere:

1.14.     Recognition
1.2.      Scope of Bargaining Unit
13        Intent
1.4       Copies
1.5       Changes in Unit Composition

ARTICLE 2 — MANAGEMENT RIGHTS.......

2.1       Rights Retained by County
2.2       Illustrations       _
2.3       Limitation on Applicability of Grievance Procedure

ARTICLE 3 — STRIKE... cccsscccsssscscoscesssccsessotsesssocranesessssunsseesensssesaosarequsessevinssesineeastsesansanssesestsete
3.1       Strike Prohibited

ARTICLE 4 — HOURS OF WORK. sssesscsssssssen sort aeenenerecennevevnil shanietatcunessteansnsautnvnensuen
4.1       Regular Hours
4.2.      Modified Work Week
4.3.      Rest Periods
4.4       Meal Periods
4.5       Special Work Hours
4.6       Waiver

ARTICLE 5 — ASSOCIATION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF.......scssscsssessertosteceencsanecarsrentsonsneereentarse

5.1       Right to Organize
5.2       Deduction of Membership Dues or Monthly Service Fees


ARTICLE 6 — WAGES AND SALARY... .cccssssccssesstessesnesnrsnesnssessecsssnassressconssenecseaunsananananseaasenneveeanenane 11

6.1       Wages
6.2       Reporting Time
6.3       Call Out Pay
6.4       Overtime
6.5     — Shift Differential
   6.6       Trade Time.
   6.7.      Promotional Increase
   6.8       Performance Evaluations
   6.9       Work improvement Plans
   6.10      Merit Raise
   6.11      Longevity Premium
   6,12      Mileage and Travel Expenses

   ARTICLE 7 — HOLIDAYS........-...c:sesssosssossersersesesssssossseonotsensesesorsteenrssnsnssstsavareennracaneatsenereverssssuraes
                                                                                                                                 tees 16


   71        Holidays
   7.2       Holiday Pay
   7.3.      Holiday Work

   ARTICLE 8 = FLEXIBLE EARNED:                 TIME ssccssissssssisssssscscesssssenroesssspisaaiveannsnanninoieamannvanaeiveeuavanianininaypeie Le


   8.1       FET Credit
   8.2       Continuous Service
   8.3       Maximum Accumulation
   8.4       Payout of FET
   8.5       FET Sell Back
   8.6       Minimum Use of FET
   8.7       Uses of FET
   8.8       Employee Responsibility (FET Bank/Leave Withaut Pay)
   8.9       FET Scheduling
   8.10      Leave Donations

   ARTICLE 9 — PERSONAL EXTENDED LEAVE (PEL).......:csscssssssecsesssorsessesssscnccstonsesesnssecermevesnvessenneee LO


   9.1      Personal Extended Leave
   9.2      Utilization of PEL
   9.3.     Retirement from Employment
   94     — Sell-Back of PEL Prior to Retirement

ARTICLE         10 = OTHER        LEAVES      AND     ABSENCES         0.0... cesscsscssessscessescesmessesesssessersevssnresisveetecceronsene Dab


   10.1      Criteria and Procedure
   10.2      Jury Duty
   10.3      Appearances
   10.4      Required Court Appearances
   10.5       Assaciation Business
10.6      Workers Compensation
10.7.     Family Medical Leave
10.8      Educational Leave
10.9      Conferences
10.10     Military Leave
10.11     Bereavement Leave
10.12     Continuation of Benefits
10.13     Right to Reinstatement for Leave Under Article 10

ARTICLE 11 — HEALTH AND WELFARE......csccscssssesssessnserserssuesrssseretassssnssssenucsersisssascsneesesssssessenenes 2A


11.1   Medical ~ Dental
11.2   Life insurance
11.3   Short Term Disability
11.4   Retirement
11.5   Deferred Compensation
11.6 — Eligible Employees
11.7   Part Time Employees
41.8   Early Retirement Benefits
11.9   Optional Insurance Fee

ARTICLE 12 — DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE........scscccisssesserserecessroonssensuseaessetcssstssteerasenseaeannntn 20


12.1     Cause for Discipline or Discharge; Types of Discipline, Representation and Rights
12.2     Definitions                                                            :
12.3     Due Process Required Prior to Issuing Letter of Reprimand
12.4     Due Process Required Prior to Issuing Formal Discipline Other Than a Letter of
          Reprimand: investigatory Interview and Notice
12.5      Notice of Possible Formal Discipline: Requirement for Pre-Disciplinary
          “Loudermill” Meeting for Discipline Exceeding a Letter of Reprimand
12.6      Imposition of Formal Discipline
412.7     Minimum Monitoring Requirements Following Formal Discipline
12.8      Records
12.9     General

ARTICLE 13 — SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES. ...........sscsssssesesscssessesseeesveesttsenescessenenenrestsetestesientseseess 30


13.1     Grievance and Mediation Procedure.                 Alternative Resolution of Grievance
         Through Collaborative Resolution
13.2     Association Representatives
13.3.    Grievance Meeting
    ARTICLE 14 — PROBATIONARY PERIOD....,....sssssecesssrsessssrsseressessssesssenssenesuseenaneantetesinssrasessaesseaneany OD

    14.1      Purpose
    14.2      Duration of Probationary Period
    14.3.     Probationary Conditions
    14.4      Probation in Promotional Position
    14,5      Notice to Associations

    ARTICLE 15 ~ LAYOFF AND RECALL...

    15.1      Definition of Seniority
    15.2      Application of Seniority in Promotions
    15.3.     When Layoffs Occur
    15.4      Recall

    ARTICLE 16 —- GENERAL PROVISIONS...

    16.1      No Discrimination —
    16.2      Existing Conditions
    16.3      Negotiations Meetings
    16.4      Pay Day                                        :
    16.5      Copy Machine and Bulletin Board
    16.6      Outside Employment
    16.7      Protective Clothing
    16.8      Inclement Weather
    16.9      Use of County E-mail System and Other County Equipment/Services
    16.10     Use of Personal Communication Devices
    16.11     Drug and Alcohol Testing Policy
    16.12     Personal Items

    ARTICLE17 = TRAINING wi ceiccacnrnomancnnimamnnniinma
                                                 RR   NORTE 38

    17.1     Department Training
~   17.2     Jobo Enhancement Training
    17.3      Mandated Training

    ARTICLE 18 — SAVINGS CLAUSE AND FUNDING... ccssessssrecnessscessenssesrensecsasanecrseesersnnesses 39

    18.1      Savings Clause
    18.2      Funding
ARTICLE 19 — FILLING OF VACANCIES.......ccsscsssssccsssssseemesessesseeeseeseseeteesntanennnaranenne 39

19.1      Filling of Vacancies
19.2      Lateral Transfer Within the Same Classification

ARTICLE 20 — DURATION........ccsssssssessscsseseenecsestscsesionsnevenseeverenccncerseaveneasaessserorresnegees

APPENDIX A— DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING POLICY.,........csssesessecseesssseusssunenesssrs 42

APPENDIX B — GARRITY WARNING........cccccccsescsssosesnescesecasuanssureecatsenisse rensenncensnreneenaeecen tes 50

Garrity Warning for Compelled Statement
Garrity Warning for Voluntary Statement
                                                 PREAMBLE
THIS AGREEMENT is entered into by Yamhill County, a political subdivision of the State of Oregon
(“County”) and the Yamhill County Juvenile Detention Workers Association (the “Association”), The
parties acknowledge that there is a statutory division of authority and responsibility between the Board
of Commissioners and certain elected officials or department heads with respect to the administration
of the department affected by this Agreement and that the statutes shall control in the event of conflict
with any provision of this Agreement. Unless otherwise indicated, the term "County" shall include the
Board of Commissioners and elected officials.

This document represents the full agreement between the County and the Association. The purpose of
this Agreement is to set forth those matters pertaining to rates of pay, hours of work, fringe benefits,
and other matters pertaining to employment and to promote general efficiency of the employees
covered in providing services to the citizens of County and to promote mutual respect between
Association employees and County management. All previous agreements between the parties or
individual employees covered by this Agreement are hereby superseded.

                           ARTICLE 1 ~ SCOPE OF AGREEMENT AND RECOGNITION

14         Recognition

Subject to Article 1.2, the County recognizes the Yamhill County Juvenile Detention Workers Association
(referred to hereafter as “Association”) as the sole and exclusive bargaining unit representative for ALL
Juvenile Corrections Specialists employed by Yamhill County and who are considered prohibited from
striking within the definition of ORS 243,736.
1.2        Scope of bargaining unit

The bargaining unit, through agreement, shall apply to all non-supervisory Juvenile Corrections
Specialists employed by the County, excluding elected officials, supervisory employees, confidential
employees, and irregular part-time Juvenile Corrections Specialists working less than 20 hours per week,
persons hired for a period of six months or less, persons hired for temporary positions intended to be
less than one year, and all other employees represented by other bargaining units. Employees renewed
for a temporary position for more than one year of continuous employment shall be reviewed by both
parties.

1.3        Intent

The intent of this Agreement is to set forth and record herein the basic and full agreement between the
parties on those matters pertaining to employment relations which incudes, but is not limited to
matters concerning direct or indirect monetary benefits, hours, paid leave time, grievance procedures,
and-other-conditions-of employment:

1.4        Copies

There shall be at least two signed copies of the final Agreement for records. At least one copy shall be
retained by the County and one by the Association.
 15      Changes in Unit Composition

The County and Association will meet during labor negotiations and discuss inclusion and exclusion of
employees in the bargaining unit sa that transfers can be made when the Collective Bargaining
Agreement is implemented.

### ARTICLE 2 —MANAGEMENT         RIGHTS

21       Rights Retained by County

The County retains all the customary, usual and exclusive rights, decision-making prerogatives,
functions, and authority connected with or in any way incident to its responsibility to manage the affairs
 of the County and any County Department. The rights of employees In the bargaining unit and
Association are limited to those specifically set forth in this Agreement, and County retains all
prerogatives, functions and rights not specifically limited by the terms of this Agreement. The County
shall have no obligation to bargain with the Association with respect to any such subjects or the exercise
of its discretion and decision-making with regard thereto, any subjects covered by the terms of this
Agreement and closed to further bargaining for the term hereof, and any subject which was, or might
have been, raised in the course of the collective bargaining. The Association, however, does not waive
express or Implied rights as entitled under PECBA and the Employment Relations Board including
 bargaining obligations for mandatory subjects of bargaining.

2.2      Illustrations

Without limitations, but by way of illustration, the exclusive prerogatives, functions and rights of County
shall include the following:

(a)    To direct and supervise all operations, functions, and policies of the departments in which
employees in the bargaining unit are employed, and operations, functions and policies in the esimaloder
of County as they may affect employees in the bargaining unit.

(b)      To close or liquidate an office, branch, operation of facility, service or combination thereof, or to
relocate, reorganize or combine the work of divisions, offices, branches, operations or facilities for
budgetary or other reasons.

Ac)      To determine the levels of service and methods of operation, including subcontracting and the
introduction of new equipment, the right to hire, lay off, transfer, promote, determine duties and
qualifications to be required, job classifications, discipline and discharge for cause, determine work
schedules and assign work, and any other such rights not specifically referred to in this Agreement.

2.3      Limitation on Applicability of Grievance Procedure

The exercise of any management prerogative, function or right which is not specifically modified by this
Agreement is not subject to the grievance procedure or, as set forth above, to bargaining during the
term of this Agreement. The application of the above management rights with respect to a particular
employee or group of employees shall not be subject to settlement of disputes. Nothing in this Article is
intended to inhibit or restrict informal, routine discussion of working conditions between the
Association and the County representatives. Such discussions are encouraged for the purpose of
providing mutually advantageous conditions and a high level of service to the Citizens of Yamhill County.
### ARTICLE 3 — STRIKE

3.1     Strike Prohibited

The employees of the Association who work for the County as Juvenile Corrections Specialists are
considered “guards” within the definition of ORS 243.762 and are prohibited from striking. The parties
agree that the Association employees are subject to the collective bargaining arbitration process
according to ORS 243.742.

The Association and its members, as individual’s or as a group will not initiate, cause, permit, or
participate or join in any strike, work stoppage, or slowdown, picketing, or any other restriction of work
affecting the operations of any County department at any location in the County. Employees in the
bargaining unit, while acting in the course of their employment, shall not refuse to cross any picket line
established by any labor organization when called upon to cross such picket line in the line of duty. The
County shall not lock out any employee during the term of this Agreement.

Upon notification confirmed in writing by County to Association that certain bargaining unit employees
covered by this Agreement are engaged in strike activity in violation of this Article, the Association shall,
upon receipt of a mailing list, advise such striking employees in writing with a copy to the County to
return to work immediately. Such notification by the Association shall not constitute an admission that it
has caused or counseled such strike activities.

Disciplinary action, including discharge, may be taken by the County against any Association employee
or employees engaged in a violation of this Article. Such disciplinary action may be undertaken
selectively at the option of the County and shall not preclude or restrict recourse to any other remedies,
including an action for damages, which may be available to the County. This section applies during the
express terms of the Agreement and does not limit protected rights after the termination of this
Agreement.

### ARTICLE 4 — HOURS OF WORK

41      Regular Hours                              ,         ,

The regular hours of work each day shall be consecutive. For employees working full time, eight (8) or
ten (10) hours of work on consecutive days, shall constitute an employee’s assigned shift and each shift
shall have regular starting and quitting times excluding those employees on flexible or irregular
schedules. Changes in an employee’s shift times shall require ten (10) days advance notice, except in
emergency work situations. Nothing in this Article shall restrict an employee and the County from
temporarily modifying the work schedule when necessary and/or the parties mutually agreeing to the
change. Employees on ten (10) hour shifts may also be assigned a single eight (8) hour shift during the
work week. _                                                     —

4.2.    Modified Work Week

Whenever the normal work week is modified, the employee will be given ten (10) days advance notice.
The notice shall contain the effective date of change.
4B      Rest Periods

Employees shall be allowed one rest period of 15 minutes duration in each one-half work shift which,
insofar as Is practicable, shall be in the middle of each half-shift. Such rest perlods shall normally be ona
scheduled basis so that activities of the department shall be staffed at all times.

Employees who are required to work beyond their regular quitting time shall be allowed a 15 minute
rest period before commencing overtime work, provided that it can be reasonably foreseen that such
overtime will exceed two hours in duration.

4.4     Meal Periods

Employees who work in continuous duty assignments will have a paid period for meals, Employees may
be interrupted during these meal times.

4.5     Special Work Hours

(a)     The parties recognize that at times variances from this Article may be desirable to meet the
specific needs of the department. In such cases the parties shall meet and negotiate an acceptable
hour-of-work agreement to meet such needs, If no such agreement is reached, the terms of this
Agreement, including sections 4.1 through 4.4, shall prevail. Those variations presently existing are
recognized by this section and no new negotiations are required,

(b)     Flexible work hours. Employees of the department may work a flexible work schedule. A
flexible work schedule is a schedule which varies the number of hours worked on a daily basis, but not
necessarily each day, or a work schedule In which starting and stopping times vary on a daily basis but
not necessarily each day, or a work schedule in which you may not have consecutive days off, but’ does
not exceed 40 hours in a work week, and is mutually agreed upon by the employee and employer, and
approved in advance by the department head. Such schedules shall be signed by the affected employee
and the department head and placed In the employee's personnel file. An employee of the department
may request a flexible work schedule by submitting a proposal in writing to their supervisor outlining the
proposed schedule. Flexible schedules shall be considered in good faith by both parties, however, final
approval or denial of a flexible schedule is in the sole reasonable discretion of the department head and
is subject to the needs of the department, as determined by management. - All schedules are subject to
change based on the changing needs of the department, as determined by management. Requests that
are denied will be in writing with an explanation for the denial.

4.6     Waiver

For purposes of Sections 4.1, 4.5(b), and 6.4(d), the provisions of ORS 653.268 are expressly waived.

### ARTICLE 5 — ASSOCIATION SECURITY AND CHECK OFF

5.1     Right to Organize

Employees shall have the right to self-organize, to form, join or assist the Association, or to refrain
therefrom, and there shall be no discrimination exercised against any employee covered by this
Agreement because of his/her membership or Association activities.




                                                      10
5.2     Deduction of Membership Dues

The County Agrees to deduct and pay to the Association from the pay of employees who are members
of the Assaciation and who consent to the deduction such dues as determined by the Association,

The County will accept a list from the Association indicating member employees who have provided
written authorization for the deduction of membership dues. The County shall rely on the list to make
authorized deductions and remit payment to the Association.      Copies of payroll authorization forms will
be provided to both the Association and the County.

The amounts to be deducted shall be certified to the County in writing by the treasurer of the
Association. The Association shall have sole responsibility to notify County of any change in the amount
of dues to be deducted at least sixty (60) days in advance of said change. Under no circumstances shall
County be required to deduct Association fines, penalties, or other assessments from the wages of any
member employee.

The employer will remit the aggregate of all deductions for all employees, together with an itemized
statement showing the name of each employee from whose pay deductions have been made and the
amount(s) deducted during the period covered by the remittance.

Each member employee’s authorization for payroll deductions shall remain in full force and effect
permanently unless the employee is no longer employed in a position in the bargaining unit represented
by Association or the member employee revokes the authorization by sending an original written,
signed and dated notice via U.S. Mail or hand delivery to both the County and Association. The
cancellation will become effective and shall be implemented no later than the second payroll after
receipt of notice by County.                               ‘          2S
When a member employee separates from employment with County or is laid off, regardless of the
reason for separation or lay off, any unpaid dues owed to the Association will be deducted from the
employee’s last paycheck if funds are available for such deduction after statutory, court-ordered, and
other voluntary deductions and/or wage withholdings have been made.

The Association shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the County against any and all claims, orders,
judgments, damages, suits or any other forms of liability which may arise out of any action taken or not
taken by the County for the purpose of implementing or complying with the provisions of this section.
Furthermore, the Association shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the County against any and all
claims, order, Judgments, damages, suits or any other forms of liability which may arise out of (i) the
Associatlon’s administration of the dues deduction system under this section, and (ii) the negligence of
the Association for its negligent acts or failure to act under, or in compliance with, this section.

### ARTICLE 6 - WAGES AND SALARY

6.1     Wages

Effective July 1, 2023 all full time Juvenile Corrections Specialists shall move to the step in Range 18 that
matches their current rate, If there is no step in Range 18 that matches their current rate, then they
shall be moved to Range 18, Step 1.




                                                     11
 Effective the first day of the pay period after September 1, 2023 the County will increase the salary
 schedule by five percent (5%) as a cost of living adjustment.

. Effective the first day of the pay period after July 1, 2024 the County will increase the salary schedule by
 four percent (4.0%) as a cost of living adjustment.

 Effective the first day of the pay perlod after July 1, 2025 the County will increase the salary schedule by
 three percent (3.0%) as a cost of living adjustment.

 6.2          Reporting Time

 Any employee who is scheduled to report to work and who presents for work as scheduled, but where
 in the discretion of the County, work is not available for the employee, shall be excused from duty and
 paid for a minimum of two hours at the employee’s regular rate.

 6.3.         Call Out Pay

 Any employee called to work outside his/her regular shift shall be compensated for a minimum of two
 hours at the rate and in the manner as set forth in sections 6.4 and 6.5 of this Agreement. Said call-out
 pay shall be paid on a portal to portal basis from and to the following: the shorter distance of the
 employee’s residence or the County-line to the reporting location, whichever is less.

 Any employee called to work on any day other than their regularly scheduled work day shall be
 compensated for a minimum of two hours at the rate and in the manner set forth in sections 6.4 and 6,5
 of this Agreement. Call-out pay pursuant to this subsection shall be paid on a portal to portal basis from
 and to the following: the shorter distance of the employee’s residence or the County-line to the
 reporting location, whichever is less.

 6.4          Overtime

 To the extent practical, overtime should be equalized among employees affected, in the classification
 affected, Employees shall be compensated at the rate of time and one-half or the applicable overtime
 rate (whichever is greater) for work under the following conditions but in no event shall such
 compensation be received twice (pyramided) for the same hours.

 (a)          All assigned work authorized by a department headin excess of either 8 hours a day for
 employees on a 5 day work week, or 10 hours a day for employees on a 4-day work week.

 (b)          All assigned work authorized by department heads in excess of 40 hours in any work week.

 (c}          All overtime must have prior approval by department head (or designee) or departmental policy
— including policies that preauthorize activities as compensable with comp time as defined under this
‘section 6.4. An employee may choose to be compensated in either cash or comp time on a case by case
 basis subject to operational and/or budgetary needs.

 (d)          Compensatory Time (“Comp Time”)
        (i)   Comp time shall be defined as time off awarded in lieu of compensation pay for overtime.
              Compensation for authorized overtime work shall be paid in the form of compensatory time off,
              or at the option of the employee, in the form of compensatory pay at the applicable rate,

                                                        12
          subject to operational needs, budgetary limitations, and to the Fair Labor Standards Act.
           Overtime worked shall be computed daily to the nearest quarter hour and shall not be carried
           forward from day to day.
      (ii) Comp time may be accumulated up to a maximum of 80 hours. Any hours in excess of the
           maximum accumulation as computed at the end of a regular payroll period will be paid to the
           employee as part of that payroll. Departmental policies (or allowable special arrangements that
            are mutually agreed upon between the employee and department head) may increase the
            maximum accumulation allowed.
      (iii) An employee may cash out compensatory time on a fiscal year basis. Any accrued comp time
            shall be used or paid in cash by the end of the last full pay period of the fiscal year (pay period
            ending on June 23). Any remaining balance of comp time as of June 23 will be paid out in the
          last paycheck of the fiscal year.

6.5       Shift Differential

The County and the Association recognize that a work week may contain three different shifts: day,
swing, and graveyard. The County agrees to apply the following shift premium pay in addition to the
established wage rate:

(a)     An hourly premium of $.70 to employees for all hours worked on shifts beginning between the
hours of noon (12:00pm) and 6:59 pm; or

(b)       An hourly premium of $1.10 to employees for all hours worked on shifts beginning between the
hours of 7:00pm and 5:59 am.

(c)       When computing the overtime rate due an employee receiving shift differential pay, such pay
must be included in the overtime rate.

(d)       Employees are not entitled to shift differential pay for a single shift change that is done by
request of and for the benefit of the employee.

{e)       Any employee regularly receiving shift differential pay shall receive their normal shift premium
when paid for FET, compensatory time, and Holiday Time.


6.6       Trade Time

By mutual agreement between an employee and the employee's supervisor, the work day may be
temporarily adjusted within the work week only. The intent of this section is to cover unexpected or
occasional changes in work hours to accommodate either individual employee needs or employer work
needs. However, inno case will an employee be required by the employer to use trade time if required
to work hours outside their normal schedule. In no case shall the number of hours in any work day
exceed the employees' regular work shift by more than 2 hours without the payment of overtime.

6.7       Promotional Increase

Any employee who is promoted shall be paid at a rate of no less than that step on the salary schedule
which is closest to but higher than the current rate.


                                                         13
6.8     Performance Evaluations

(a)       Evaluation, Yearly evaluation will be provided during the anniversary month of the affected
employee. Such evaluation shall be a determination of satisfactory or unsatisfactory performance as
noted on the personnel action form, Satisfactory performance will result in a yearly step increase as
eligible. A step increase may be denied for unsatisfactory performance. Unsatisfactory performance may
lead to counseling, work improvement plans or disciplinary action if authorized by this Agreement.
Should the yearly evaluation not occur within the anniversary month, the work performance will be
deemed satisfactory unless time lines are extended by mutual agreement between the County and the
Association. Copies of the yearly performance evaluations will be kept in an employee’s personnel file.

(b)      It is recognized that the department may continue additional evaluation activities; however
these intermittent evaluation records shall be kept in the working files of managers and employees and
not in the County personnel file. The department shall attempt to meet annually with each employee
on a one-to-one basis to cover goals and expectations of the employee and department.

(c)     Satisfactory Performance: Employees receiving a satisfactory evaluation shall receive a merit
increase equal to one step on the salary schedule. Employees at the top step of the salary schedule will
not receive a merit increase pursuant to this section. Nothing in this section shall prohibit a supervisor
from recommending to the County Administrator that an employee receive an early step increase where
the supervisor believes that the employee is deserving of early merit recognition. The County
Administrator shall have authority to accept or reject the supervisor’s recommendation, In the event the
employee receives'a merit increase prior to the applicable date, the employee's new, evaluation date for
the purposes of further merit increase shall be twelve months from the date of the last merit increase,

(d)       Unsatisfactory Annual Evaluation: Management shall provide substantiating evidence of an
unsatisfactory evaluation. Unsatisfactory performance may lead to counseling, work improvement plans
or disciplinary actions if authorized by this Agreement. Where the step Increase has been denied, a work
improvement plan (not to exceed a total of 180 days as per Article 6.9) shall be developed which
identifies timelines under which the decision to deny the step increase shall be reconsidered. In the
event the performance is deemed sufficient to warrant a step increase, the effective date of the step
Increase shall be the date of reconsideration, Nothing in this section shall change the anniversary date
and is not subject to 6.10c.

(a)     An employee may submit comments or rebuttal to an evaluation.

6.9     Work improvement Plans

(a)     The County may issue a work improvement plan where an employee’s performance or behavior
is unsatisfactory. Work improvement plans themselves are not considered disciplinary unless attached
to a disciplinary action. Such work improvement plans shall include; job description expectations,
performance deficiencies, criteria or objectives and how they will be measured in arder to complete the
plan, and the consequences, and time lines if not completed successfully. Monthly reviews of the
progress of the employee in satisfying the work improvement plan will be required. The County may
issue a work improvement plan where an employee's performance or behavior is unsatisfactory. Failure
by a supervisor to conduct the stated periodic review will result in the plan becoming null and void for
the purpose of imposing discipline for a failure to complete the work improvement plan. The supervisor


                                                     14
            may adjust the timing of the reviews provided that the intent of giving the employee updates on their
            progress is met. This provision does not prohibit the employer from imposing a new work plan.

            (b)    Work improvement plans shall have a specified duration not to exceed 180 days. When a work
            improvement plan is imposed, Human Resources and the Association shall be notified of such action.

            6.10      Merit Raise

            (a)       Eligible employees will receive merit raises in accordance with this section on their next regular
            anniversary date.

            (b)       Employees receiving a satisfactory with merit or higher evaluation on their annual evaluation
            shall receive a merit increase equal to one step on the salary schedule. Employees at the top step of the
            salary schedule for their job classification will not receive a merit raise, pursuant to this section.

            (c)      The annual evaluation date for employee under this section shall be as follow.

                   (i) An annual merit increase shall be on the basis of 1 year from the date of the last merit or step
                        increase. Except for an employee  on probationary status, an annual evaluation pursuant to this
                      section shall be 1 year from the date of the last merit or step increase.

                   (ii) Notwithstanding subsection (I) in the event an employee receives a merit increase in less time
                        than the 12-month period provided herein, the employees new annual evaluation date for the
                       purpose of further merit increases shall be twelve months from the date of the last merit
                       increase.

                   (iii) Nothing in this section shall prohibit a supervisor from recommending to the County
                        Administrator that an employee receive an early step increase where the supervisor believes
                        that the employee is deserving of such early merit recognition. The County Administrator shall
                        have authority to accept or reject the supervisor’s recommendation.

            6.11      Longevity Premium

            (a)       Employees with the following years of continuous service who are then employed by Yamhill
            County shall receive one-twelfth {1/12") of the stated pay each month as a longevity premium starting
            with the paycheck following their anniversary date, except as provided in subsection (b)

            10 years— $900.00 on anniversary date

            15 years— $1,200.00 on anniversary date

            20 years— $1,600.00 on anniversary date

—————25-years—-$2,000,00-on-anniversary-date                                                                     =

            (b)     Employees not eligible for the longevity premium are stated below under the following
            circumstances:

                     (i) The employee is on a work plan on the anniversary date; however the longevity premium will
                          be paid once the employee has satisfactorily completed the work plan.




                                                                   15
        (ii) The employee has received formal discipline within the year preceding the anniversary date
             and the discipline has not been removed from the personnel file following a grievance under
            Article 13.

6.12    Mileage and Travel Expenses

When an employee is authorized to use his/her own car on official County business, the employee shall
be reimbursed at the then-current County mileage reimbursement rate for all business miles. The
County will review the mileage rate yearly in comparisons with other jurisdictions and the IRS rate.

Meals will be, when necessary, reimbursed by the employer in accordance with the schedule on the
reimbursement form.

### ARTICLE 7 — HOLIDAYS

74      Holidays

The following shall be recognized as paid Holidays:

New Year’s Day                        Veteran’s Day

Martin Luther King’s Birthday         Thanksgiving day

President’s Day                       Christmas Day

Memoria! Day                          2 Floating Personal Holidays**

Independence Day             :        1 Commissioner's Day***

Labor Day                             Juneteenth

Association employees shall be granted two additional personal holidays as they are part of a 24 hour
continuous operations division, These personal holidays may be used at the discretion of the employee
with the consent of the department head between November 1‘ and January 31* in the applicable year.
Any personal holiday named in this paragraph not taken prior to termination or January 31* of the
applicable year, whichever occurs first, is lost. Personal holidays have no cash value.

** Eloating Personal Holidays may be used at the discretion of the employee with the consent of the
supervisor, provided however the employee must be employed for at least three months before the
floating personal holidays may be used. In lieu of taking one or two floating personal holidays, an
employee may elect to take cash payment equivalent to 8 hours pay per floating personal holiday not
taken. In all cases,.personal holidays must be taken by the end of the fiscal year (lune 30"), If not taken
before the end of the fiscal year, the floating personal holiday is forfeited, and if the election for cash
payment has not been made, the cash payment is also forfeited.

«+ Commissioner’s Day may be taken during the months of November, December, or January with
consent of the supervisor. If the Commissioner's day is not taken prior to January 31* the
Commissioner's day is forfeited.   A Commissioner’s day has no cash value.




                                                      16
7.2     Holiday Pay

(a)     Eligible employees shall receive 8 hours pay for each of the holidays listed in 7.1 on which they
perform no work. if any employee is on authorized leave when a holiday occurs, the holiday shall not be
charged against such leave. Unless on a bona fide authorized leave with pay, an employee, to be eligible
for holiday pay, must work their full assigned shifts next preceding and following the holiday.   Holiday
pay shall be prorated for regular part-time employees.

(b)     Holiday pay is for an eight (8) hour day; (10) hour days shall be supplemented with comp time,
FET, trade time, or leave without pay If the employee has exhausted all paid leave.

7.3     Holiday Work

If an employee is required to work any of the holiday's as defined in section 7.1 they shall receive
holiday pay and, in addition to the regular holiday pay, compensation for all hours worked at one and
one half their regular rate of pay, or at the option of County compensatory time off with pay equivalent
to one and one-half times the time worked on the holiday. Compensatory time off accrued by reason of
authorized work on a holiday as provided herein shall be paid for at the employee's regular rate of pay
at the time work was performed if now scheduled or taken as compensatory time off within 30 days, For
the purpose of this Article “holiday worked” means the actual holiday date and not the County observed
holiday, provided that the majority of hours worked in the shift fall on the actual holiday date.

                                  ARTCLE 8 — FLEXIBLE EARNED TIME (FET)

8.1     FET Credit

(a)     Full time employees shall accrue flexible earned time (FET) as follows
        MONTHS       (YEARS) Of SERVICE   _ HOURS (FET) Per Month
        4-12 (0-1)                         13
        13-59 (1-4.9)                      15
        60-119 (5-9.9)                     17
        120-179 (10-14.9)                  19
        180-239 (15-19.9)                  21
        240+                               23

(b)     Part-Time employees covered by this Agreement shall accrue FET in proportionate amounts to
that earned by full time employees,

(c)     Employee’s FET entitlement shall be calculated on a calendar month basis. For this purpose only,
employees whose anniversary date is between the first and fifteenth day of a month shall be considered
fo have been hired on the first day of the month, Employees whose anniversary date is between the
16th and last day of the month shall be considered to be hired on the first day of the next month,

8,2     Continuous Service

Continuous service, for the purpose of accumulating FET, shall be service unbroken by separation from
employment by the County. Time spent by an employee on a paid leave or job-related illness or injury
shall be included as continuous service. Time spent on unpaid authorized leave will not be counted as

                                                     17
part of continuous service for accrual purposes, but employees returning from such leaves and from
layoff status shall be entitled to credit for service prior to the leave or layoff.

8.3      Maximum Accumulation

The maximum FET that may be accumulated by an employee is a number of hours equivalent to 24
times the employee’s monthly accrual rate. All FET earned in excess of the maximum shall be placed in
the Personal Extended Leave (PEL) Account.

8.4      Payout of FET

(a)      Upon termination, bargaining unit members shall be compensated for accrued FET in cash at the
employee’s then-current salary level according to the following schedule.

Months (Years) of Service                Percentage Of FET Paid Out

0-12 (0-1)                         0%
13-60 (1-5)                        50%
61-72 (5-6)                        55%
73-84 (6-7)                        60%
85-96 (7-8)                        65%

97-108 (8-9)                       70%
109-120 (9-10}                     75%

121-132 (10-11)                    80%

133-144 (11-12)                    85%

145-156 (12-13)                    90%

157-168 {13-14}                    95%

169+ (14+)                         100%
(b}      Upon retirement, as noted in section 9.4, all FET shall be paid out at 100% of current value.

(c)     In the event of the employee’s death, all FET shall be paid out at 100% of current value to the
employee's estate.

3.5      FET Sell Back

(a)     An employee with at least one year and up to 14 years of continuous service may elect to selt
back up to 40 hours of FET once per fiscal year. An employee with 14 years or more of continuous
service may elect to sell-back up to 80 hours of FET once per fiscal year. The employee must have a
remaining FET balance of 80 plus hours after the sell back, Said request shall be in writing on a County
approved form and Department head approval shall be required. Payment shall be made as part of the
regular paycheck.



                                                        18
    {b)     Sell back may not be used in conjunction with donated leave.

    (c)     Part-time employees. The provisions of this article will apply to part time employees as
    prorated,   Employees selling back FET must maintain a remaining balance of 80 hours after the sell back,

    8.6     Minimum Use of FET

    Employees must use at least 60 hours of FET per year unless waived by mutual agreement of the
    employee and the department head,

    8.7     Uses of FET

    FET may be used for vacation, illness (employee or family member residing in house) personal business,
    or family medical leave or other statutory designations, Accrued FET may be taken in units of one
    quarter hour or more, Whenever possible FET usage shall be scheduled in advance,

    8.8     Employee Responsibility (FET Bank/Leave Without Pay)

    Employees are required to manage FET leave within their FET allocations except for authorized family
    medical leave or other exigent circumstances. Leave without pay shall be strictly restricted, be based on
    totality of circumstances and subject to department head approval. Failure to manage FET leave as
    demonstrated by past use of FET and requests for leave without pay, absent Justified circumstances,
    may be subject to progressive discipline.

    8.9     FET Scheduling

    Approval of FET request for vacation purposes are subject to the operational needs of the facility and
    employer. Requests for one week or longer should normally be made at least 14 days in advance. Other
    requests for shorter periods (less than 5 days) should normally be made at least 24 hours in advance. If
    an employee has insufficient FET on the books for the request the employer may conditionally approve
    subject to the employee having sufficient FET at the time of the vacation. Shorter notice does not
    prevent the employer from approving the leave.

    8.10    Leave Donations

    The current donation of leave program shall continue as per County policy, but the employee must have
    exhausted all leaves before donations can be accepted.

                                  ARTICLE 9 ~ PERSONAL EXTENDED LEAVE (PEL)

    4       Personal Extended Leave (PEL)

    {a)     All FET accrued in excess of the maximum accrual limits stated in Article 8 shall be placed in the
    employee's
          PEL account:

    {b)     There is no accumulation limit to the PEL account.

    9.2     Utilization of PEL

    (a)      Employees suffering an Illness or injury in excess of 5 consecutive work days may draw upon
    thelr PEL account after the 5th day. PEL is provided by County solely in the nature of Insurance against
-   an employee's loss of income due to illness or injury. Employees may utilize their PEL when unable to

                                                        19
perform their work duties because of {llness or injury, exposure to contagious disease under
circumstances by which the health of the employees with whom associated or members of the public
necessarily dealt with would be endangered by attendance of the employee, or by illness to the
employee’s family members in the employee's immediate household, In such event, the employee shall
notify their immediate supervisor, with a copy to Human Resources. The notice will include the reasons
for the absence, the nature and expected length thereof, as soon as possible and in no event later than
the first half the first regular work shift unless unable to do so because of the injury or illness. A
physician’s statement of the nature of the injury or illness, the employee's disabillty from performing
work, the need for the employee’s absence, and the estimated duration of the absence may be required
at the option of the department head, other supervisor or Hurman Resources for absences of over three
days, prior to the payment of PEL benefits. A physician’s statement may also be required at the option of
the department head, other supervisor, or Human Resources when an employee has had three or more
non-consécutive-absences within a given calendar month, prior to the payment of. any further PEL
benefits for that month, provided that the employee Is notified in writing that a physician’s statement
will be required. If a physician’s statement is required, it shall be directed to Human Resources,

(b)       Notwithstanding subsection (a), an employee with available PEL. may exercise a one-time option
to sell back up to 40 hours of the PEL once per fiscal year. In the alternative, employees with over 500
hours may sell back PEL up to 80 hours once per fiscal year, Payment shall be made as part of the
regular paycheck. Request for PEL sell back are the sole responsibility of the employee and such request
rust be made in writing on the County approved form.

9.3     Retirement from Employment

PEL has no cash-out value upon termination except at retirement, layoff as under article 15.4,
permanent and total disability because of a work-related injury, death of the employee, or as provided
in Section 9.4, “Sell Back of PEL, Prior to Retirement” In the event of retirement, and where the
employee has not elected to exercise rights under Section 9.4, the value of the PEL will be placed ina
Retirement Health Savings Plan for the benefit of the employee. Maximum pay-out will be 880 hours of
PEL. Pay-out at death will be to the employee’s estate. Pay-Out of PEL to the Retirement Health Savings
Plan at retirement will be allowed providing the following conditions are satisfied.

{a).    The employee is at least 55 years old; and

(b)     The employee has served as a County employee for at least 7 years of continuous service
immediately prior to retirement; and

(c)     The employee is eligible for the County provided retirement program and does not intend to
take a full-time job elsewhere.

9.4     Sell-Back of PEL Prior To Retirement

(a)     An employee who has reached the age of55 and whe has 7 or more continuous years of service
with Yamhill County, and who is eligible for the County provided retirement program and intends to
retire and does not intend to take a full-time job elsewhere may elect a one-time option to sell back all
or part of accrued PEL within the window period described below prior to the date of retirement.




                                                     20
 {b)      An employee qualified to sell back PEL under this section must advise the accounting division of
 their intent to sell back PEL no earlier than November 24th and no later than December 23rd in the
 calendar year prior to the year the employee retires. The income earned from the sell back shall be paid
 in the next regular paycheck due the employee subject to the time needed to process the payroll.

 (c)     Any employee who has more than 880 hours of PEL on the books at the time they request this
 one time sell back of PEL shall forfeit all PEL more than 880 hours which is the maximum payout upon
 retirement.

 (d)     {f this option is exercised, the employee is responsible for all employee state and federal
 income, FICA and Medicare, and any other employee pald taxes imposed on the income earned from
 the sell back. Persons who elect this sell back feature may utilize the County’s deferred compensation
 program to defer income taxes on their earnings subject to federal deferred compensation limits and
 the policies of the deferred compensation provider.

### ARTICLE 10 — OTHER LEAVES AND ABSENCES

 10.1    Criteria and Procedure

 {a)     Leave of absence without pay, not otherwise protected by law, not to exceed 90 calendar days
 may be granted upon establishment of reasonable justification therefore in instances where the work of
 the department will not be seriously handicapped by the temporary absence of the employee. Requests
 for such leave must be made In writing. Normally such leave will not be approved for an employee for
 the purposes of accepting employment outside the County. Such leaves may be renewed or extended
 upon request and in the discretion of the County Administrator.

 (b      Leave of absence without pay, as provided for in section 10.1(a), is not allowed until the
 employee has used all accrued leave, including available holidays in Article 7.

 10.2    Jury Duty

 Employees shall be granted leave, for service on a jury. The compensation paid to such an employee for
 the period of such absence shall be reduced by the amount of money received by him/her for such jury
 duty. Upon being excused from jury service before the end of their normal shifts, employees shall
 immediately contact the department head or other supervisor for assignment for the remainder of the
 work day.

 10.3.   Appearances

 Leave without pay shall be granted for appearances, in connection with an employee's officially assigned
 duties, before a court, legislative committee, judicial or quasi-judicial body as a witness in response to a
_subpoena_orother-direction-by_proper_authority.The.compensation-paidto.such-employee shall-_be
 reduced by an amount equal to any compensation he/she may receive as a witness fee.

 10.4    Required Court Appearances

 Leave of absence with pay shall be granted for the appearance in court in connection with an
 employee's officially assigned duties, including the time required for travel to the court and return to
 the employee's headquarters. Employees whose normal duties require court appearances shall normally
 be compensated in the form of compensatory time off.

                                                       a1
10.5    Association Business

(a)     The union will provide a list of the names of union officers, position held, and union stewards to
the County Administrator no later than January 1st of every year. The union will promptly notify the
County Administrator of any changes to the above-described list. The Association or its representatives
shall have the right to conduct official Association business on County property at such time and ina
manner which does not interrupt County operations or efficiency with supervisor approval, Nothing
herein is to be construed as right of an employee to leave his/her station without supervisory approval.
To gain supervisor approval, a written description of the specific reason for the need to leave the work
station, the purpose of the absence and the estimated duration of the absence, is required The
Association shall conduct all business on other than County time except as expressly authorized
elsewhere in thls Agreement.

Union meetings on County property will only be allowed so long as they do not interfere with County
business needs and break and !unch periods of County employees. Before scheduling a union meeting
on County property, the use of the planned meeting space will be scheduled in advance with approval
through the department supervisor responsible for that facility,

(b)      A maximum of 3 Association Officers or steward’s shall be granted use of their FET, or Corp
time for other Association related meetings, provided 30 days written noticeis given to the department
head or supervisor and is approved by the County Administrator. No more than one given employee
from the department shall be on leave at the same time pursuant to this provision, unless approved by
the department head and the County Administrator.                                     vs

10.6    Workers Compensation

The County shall pay to the employee the difference between what the employee receives from
Workers’ Compensation insurance and his/her regular salary rate. The dollar value paid by the County
shall be converted to the employee's hourly wage rate and charged on an hourly basis against the
employees’ accrued paid leave. If the employee has no accrued Jeave, or upon exhaustion of the
employee’s leaves, the County’s supplemental payments shal} cease. _       ;               ;

10.7.   Family Medical Leave

Family medical leave shall be granted in accordance with applicable law. Employees shall be required to
use, in order, any accrued FET, compensatory time, available personal holidays, or PEL at the beginning
of a period of leave. Extensions of leave beyond the statutory perlod shall be provided in section 10.1

10.8    Educational Leave

After completing one year of continuous service a full-time employee, upon written request, may at the
discretion of the department head and the County Administrator be granted a leave of absence without
pay by the County for the purpose of upgrading his/her professional ability through enrollment at an
accredited school or course of study. The period of such leave of absence shall not exceed one year but
may be renewed or extended upon request of the employee and approval of the department head and
the County Administrator, One-year leaves of absence, with requested extension, for educational
purposes may not be provided more than once in a three-year period.




                                                    22
10.9    Conferences             a

Employee’s may also be granted time off with pay for educational purposes, for reasonable lengths of
time, to attend conferences, seminars, briefing sesstons, training programs, and other programs of a
similar nature that are intended to improve or upgrade the employee’s skill and professional ability
when approved by the supervisor and/or the department head having supervision of the employee.
Attendance at such conferences shall be subject to budget limitations and all non-budgeted expenses
shall require approval by supervisor and/or the department head. No employee shall be authorized to
attend school, training, or educational program in excess of one week, unless such employee first agrees
in writing to either continue in the active employment of the County for one full year following
completion of the grogram or, if his/her employment Is voluntarily terminated within that year or while
in attendance at the program, to relmburse the County for the salary paid to him/her while attending
such program.

10.40   Military Leave

Military leave shall be granted in accordance with State and Federal Law.

10.11   Bereavement Leave

An employee may be granted up to 5 days paid bereavement leave to be used within sixty (60 days
following the death of the employee's fiancé, spouse, same sex domestic partner, parents, children,
brother, slster, grandparent(s), stepmother, stepfather, stepchild, and the spouse same (Le, spouses
parents, grandparents, etc.) or any other family member residing in the employee's immediate. _
household, The purpose of the leave is to make household arrangements and to attend the funeral.
Bereavement leave may be taken intermittently within the time allowed so long as the leave is taken in
full-day increments, with the approval, of the supervisor. However, once the leave is commenced, the
complete amount of the leave must be used within a two-week period. The above-described
bereavement leave is concurrent with any other bereavement leave allowed by law.

An employee may also be granted paid bereavement leave to attend the funeral of a current fellow
employee, Unpaid bereavement leave may be granted in the event of the death of a close friend. Time
taken off to attend such friend or fellow employee’s funeral may be scheduled in half-day increments
and shall be limited to no more than one day.

Bereavement leave will not be unreasonably denied and any denial can be appealed to the County
Administrator. The County Administrator can make exceptions to the two-week period based on special
circumstances.

10.12   Continuation of Benefits

Upon termination, an employee may continue at the employee’s expense County benefits as provided
by state and federal law.

10.13   Right to Reinstatement for Leave Under Article 10

At the expiration of an authorized leave of absence granted under this Article, the employee shall be
returned to the employee’s former or similar position. Provided however, that if the employee returns



                                                    23.
after 12 months (except for workers compensations leaves), the employee may be placed on a rehire list
and be reinstated when an opening occurs in a job the employee is qualified to perform.

### ARTICLE 41 — HEALTH AND WELFARE

11.1    Medical — Dental

(a)       For the term of this Agreement and during negotiations for a successor agreement, the County
shall offer Association members the same medical and dental packages, including VEBAs, offered to the
Yamhill County Employee Association, hereinafter referred to as “YCEA” bargaining unit members in the
same period.

(b)    Effective September 1, 2023, the County shall pay 97% of the Providence Base plan monthly
premiums for coverage of full-time employees and their dependents. The employee shall pay 3%. In
addition, the County shall permit full-time employees to “buy-up” to a different plan, The County shall
contribute $125.00 per month toward the cost of the “buy-up” plan. The employee's share shall be paid
by payroll deduction.

(c)      While this Agreement is in effect, the County will provide a Voluntary Employee Beneficiary
Association Medical Expense Plan ("VEBA") to be administered by a third party on behalf of those
members who select the Providence Base Plan. The amount of the VEBA is $125 per month. The County
will not provide a VEBA for those members who choose to "buy-up" to the "buy-up" plan.

11.2    Life Insurance. :

County shall provide $6,000 term life insurance for each employee and $2,000 for his/her dependents
under a plan selected by the County. Employees shall designate their beneficiaries. The County will’
provide an option for additional life insurance at the employee's cost.

11.3    Short Term Disability

The County will pay the full premiums for short-term disability insurance administered through a private
carrier in accordance with standards determined and approved by the joint County and YCEA Benefits
Committee,

11.4    Retirement

AS determined by PERS, eligible employees shall become members of Yamhill County PERS non-police
and fire retirement plan. The County shall pick up the employee contribution unless prohibited by law.

11.5    Deferred Compensation

The County shall provide for deferred compensation plans offered by a qual ified financial institution
such as those offered by Nationwide Retirement, ICMA Retirement Corporation and Oregon Savings
Growth Plan.

11.6    Eligible Employees

Full time employees shall be eligible for the health and welfare benefits set forth in this Article on the
first day of the calendar month following the month of employment if the employee is hired on or
before the 15th day of the month, If the employee is hired.on or after the 16th day of the month, then

                                                     24
the employee shall be eligible on the first day of the calendar month following the month after the
month of employment.

11.7    Part Time Employees

Regular part time employees shall receive the prorated percentage in proportionate amounts to that
received by full time employees.

11,8    Early Retirement Benefit

An employee who has served the County for a minimum of 10 years continuous service immediately
prior to retirement at or after the age of 55 will be entitled to an early retirement benefit in the form of
severance pay in the sum of $125 for each year of his/her age less than 70.

11.9    Optional Insurance Fee

Any employee purchasing optional insurance coverage shall pay as part of the cost of coverage a service
fee of $.50 per month for each plan employee participates in. No fee shall be charged for participation in
a County-sponsored deferred compensation program.

### ARTICLE 12- DISCIPLINE AND DISCHARGE

12.1    Cause for Discipline or Discharge: Types of Discipline, Representation and Rights

{a)      The County may discipline, discharge, suspend, or reduce the pay of an employee for just cause.
Disciple shall normally be progressive. Suspension shall not exceed two weeks. The county may impose
sanctions based on the totality of circumstances and severity or the conduct. Reduction in pay means a
lower step on the employee’s salary range.

(b)     Employee's engaging in behavior that disrupts the orderly, efficient, or safe operation of
business or reduces their performance or the performance of co-workers that reasonably might be
expected by management may be subject to discipline. Such behaviors may be defined in the employee             _
handbook or by department policy,

(c)     Formal Discipline: Forms of formal discipline include, but are not limited to: letter of reprimand,
suspension, reduction in salary, demotion, and termination. Discipline will normally be progressive;
however, any level of discipline may be imposed based upon the totality of the circumstances and just
cause. The County may terminate, suspend, or reduce the pay of an employee for the following actions
whichdo not require prior discipline: dishonesty, including theft, drinking or being under the influence
of intoxicants, when related to employment activity, use or sale of illegal drugs, gross insubordination,
conviction of a felony, conviction of a misdemeanor related to work, obtaining leave or benefits under a
false pretense, deliberate or reckless destruction of County property, gross misconduct or sexual
conduct in connection with work or other similar conduct which reflects poorly on County employment.

{d)     Informal Discipline: Forms of informal discipline include, but are not limited to counseling,
verbal warnings, letters of instruction, and work Improvement plans, These forms of informal discipline
may serve as evidence for future formal disciplines. Information regarding informal discipline shall be
kept in the managers working file. Informal discipline is not subject to the grievance process, If the
informal discipline is reduced to writing, the employee may provide a written rebuttal.


                                                     25
(e}        Employees involved in disciplinary actions have the right to request Association representation
or Association counsel in any investigatory interviews with management regarding formal discipline.
Other representatives in disciplinary actions are permitted only through the agreement of the County
and the Association.

12.2       Definitions

The following definitions shall apply for this Article

 (a)       “Gross insubordination” is the refusal of any employee to obey a lawful order after such order
 has been communicated both verbally and in writing.
 (b)     “Gross Misconduct” means any conduct constituting a substantial disregard for the standards of
 behavior which a reasonable employer has the right to expect. Such conduct may include violation of
 confidentiality agreements or release of confidential materials contrary to department policy,
 (c)     “Sexual Misconduct in connections with work” Means any conduct constituting sexual
 harassment or any overt sexual activity occurring In the work place.

 12.3      Due Process Required Prior To Issuing Letter of Reprimand

 Prior to issuing a letter of reprimand, the manager shall discuss the infraction with the employee.
 Should any part of the interview involve potential criminal conduct, the employee will be given one of
 the written “Garrity” warnings provided in a memorandumto this Agreement before discussing the
 infraction with the employee. If during the discussion, the employee believes formal discipline may
 result, the employee may request and be granted an Association representative, Following the
 discussion, the manger will determine whether to proceed with formal discipline. If the manager
 tentatively elects to issue a letter of reprimand, the manager will so inform the employee. The
 employee may then request the manager delay issuing the letter of reprimand until the employee
 prepares a rebuttal. Upon such request, the manager is obligated to refrain from issuing the letter or
 reprimand for at least one working day or as mutually agreed. A time shall then be set by the manager
 to receive the employee’s rebuttal for consideration before the letter of reprimand is issued. An
 Association representative may, upon request, be present when the employee presents the rebuttal to
 the manager, After considering the rebuttal the manager will determine if to issue the letter of
 reprimand.                                                           :

12.4       Due Process Required Prior To tssuing Formal Discipline Other Than a Letter of Reprimand:
           investigatory Interview and Notice                     :                          :

In the event the Employer believes an employee has engaged in conduct that may result in formal
discipline other than a letter of reprimand, the following due process will be provided:

 (a)    | The employee and the Associatlon’s president, or designee, will be given at least 24 hours
 advance written notice of intent to interview the employee under investigation for formal disciplinary
 action. The interview will be termed “investigatory interview” The notice will include the nature of the
 allegations or sufficient information to determine the alleged misconduct, the approximate date of the
 incident, giving rise to the interview, and the employee’s right to request and Association
 representative be present during the interview. If such a request is made, it will not be unreasonably
 denied.

                                                         26
 (b)    Interviews will take place at a County facility, or elsewhere if mutually agreed, unless an
 emergency exists which requires the interview to be conducted elsewhere.

 {c}    The Employer shall make a reasonable good faith effort to conduct an Investigatory interview
 during the employee’s regular working hours, except for emergencies or where interviews can be
 conducted by telephone.

 (d)         Employees may be compelled to answer all questions in the pre-disciplinary investigatory
 interview that are reasonably related to the subject matter under investigation. The employee may be
 disciplined for refusing to answer such questions. Should any part of the interview involve potential
 criminal conduct, the employee will be given one of the written, “Garrity” warning provided in a
 memorandum to this Agreement before interviewing the employee. The Employer may compel the
 employee to answer questions, however, any responses may not be used in any proceeding other than
 the internal investigation unless the employee knowingly provides false statements or information in
 response to the questions. Garrity warnings are included in an appendix to this Agreement.

      (e)    Interviews shall be conducted professionally without intimidation or abuse.

      (f)   | The employee shall be entitled to such reasonable intermissions as reasonably necessary.

      (g)    All interviews shall be limited in scope to activities, circumstance, events, conduct or acts
      pertaining to the incident that is the subject of the investigation. Nothing in this section shall prohibit
      the Employer from questioning the employee about information that is developed during the course
      of the interview.


      (h) _ If the Employer or the Association tape records the interview, all participants will be so notified
      before the interview begins. A complimentary copy of the complete interview of the employee shall
      be furnished, upon request, to either party. If the interviewed employee is subsequently disciplined
      and any part of any recording is transcribed by the Employer or the employee, the other party shall be
      given a complimentary copy.


12.5         Notice of Possible Formal Discipline: Requirement for Pre-Disciplinary “Loudermill” Meeting
             for Discipline Exceeding a Letter of Reprimand

{a)          Notice of Possible Formal Discipline, At the option of the Employer, the Employer may propose a
Notice of Possible Formal Discipline to resolve a disciplinary matter by agreement in lieu of the pre-
disciplinary, “Loudermill” meeting described in subparagraph The Notice of Possible Discipline may be
offered_with                                      _orwit
                            investigatory interview.A                       hout.a
                                                        Notice-of Possible Disciplinewill. describe-then
                                                                                                       facts,
alleged misconduct and proposed discipline. The employee may either accept or reject the proposed
discipline. If the proposed discipline is accepted, discipline will be imposed in accordance with the
notice, If the proposed discipline is rejected, the Employer may proceed to give written notice of a
disciplinary “Loudermill” meeting as described in subparagraph (b}

(b)          “Loudermill” meeting. Following the investigatory interview or Notice of Possible Formal
Discipline process described above, if the Employer elects to proceed with formal discipline, the


                                                          27
Employer will provide the employee and Association representative with written Notice of Disciplinary
Meeting. The notice will include the time and place of the meeting, a summary of the preliminary
findings, the alleged misconduct, and a range of the possible discipline. The parties will attempt to set
the meeting by mutual agreement. At the meeting, the employee or the employee's designee will be
given the opportunity to provide any explanation desired, including mitigating evidence or
circumstances. At any time during or before the Loudermill meeting, the Employer, Association or
affected employee may request a collaborative discussion as provided in subparagraph (c) to attempt to
resolve the issues leading to the possible disclpline. The collaborative discussion will only take placed
upon mutual agreement of the parties.

{c)      The parties by mutual agreement may enter into the collaborative discussion authorized by this
section. The parties will set a time frame for completion of the collaborative discussion. The purpose of
this discussion is to provide either party the opportunity to provide additional evidence, mitigating or
aggravating circumstances related to the potential discipline. The parties agree to maintain and informal
setting for the meeting. Either party may record the meeting. The employer may not decide on the final
discipline to be imposed until after such meeting. The parties may agree to alternative forms of
discipline or other resolution as they deem appropriate. Such solutions shall not constitute a precedent
for other disciplinary cases. The collaborative. discussion is subject to the following terms:

        (i) While the collaborative discussions are taking place, all other contractual time frames in
           Article 12 are to be frozen.                           :

        (ii) The Employer, Association, or affected Employee may terminate the collaborative
            discussions at any point. If collaborative discussions are terminated, the time frames in article
            12 resume.

        (iil) Where a disciplinary action may result due to a conflict between bargaining unit employees,
             . the manager or supervisor may solicit the assistance of the Association in mediating the
             conflict as an alternative to imposing discipline.

12.6    Imposition of Formal Discipline

(a)     If the Employer determines that discipline is warranted, the Employer will issue written Notice
of Discipline to the affected employee. The notice will include a summary of the facts, the policy
violations or misconduct determined to have occurred and explanation of the discipline imposed.

(b)     The employee or Association representative, upon request shall be furnished with a copy of the
reports of the investigation which shall contain al known material facts of the matter, witness
statements, tape recordings, and any other materials relied upon to impose discipline. The employee
shall also be given all the names of witnesses and complaints who provided testimony against him or her
and/or whose statements may be used against him or her. These will be provided at no cost to the
employee or the Association.

{c)      When the Employer issues a letter of reprimand, reduction in pay, suspension without pay, or
discharge, it must do so within 30 calendar days of the day of the Employer first had knowledge of the
conduct giving rise to the discipline; otherwise the discipline will be disallowed. [f the County is unable
to meet the 30-day deadline, it will so advise the Association and request an extension of time In which



                                                      28
to issue the discipline.   Mutual agreement to the extension will not be unreasonably withheld. A copy of
the notice of discipline shall be given to the Association and affected employee immediately.

(d)     In no event will an employee be discharged or suffer loss of pay due to disciplinary action until
the County has given at least three days (which may be extended by mutual consent of the parties) prior
written notice to the employee and Association of the alleged misconduct leading to the discipline.

12.7 Minimum Monitoring Requirements Following Formal Discipline

In the event that the County imposes formal discipline, excluding termination, the discipline will provide
for two dates approximately six months and one year in the future to review the progress the employee
is making resolving the issues for which discipline was imposed. Nothing shall preclude meetings on a
more frequent basis if desired, A brief summary of said meetings will be reduced to writing by
management. In the event that the supervisor fails to meet the timeline set for the meeting, the
employee or the Association shall have 30 days in which to request the meeting. In the event that the
supervisor fails to hold the meeting at the employee’s request, the formal discipline shall-have no
further force or effect. The employee shall be given the opportunity to have a YCIDWA representative
present at said meetings. However, it is not the County’s responsibility to make such arrangements.
Timelines begin from imposition of discipline regardless of grievance filing.

12.8       Records

{a)        An employee subject to discipline shall be given a copy of any disciplinary action entered in their
personne! file within five days of such action. Employees may place statements of rebuttal or mitigation
in their personnel files.

(b)     Letters of reprimand shall be removed from the personnel file after 24 months, and other
formal disciplines after three years. The removed discipline shall then go into a confidential file,
maintained by Human Resources and will be effective for the disciplinary process only if the employee
commits the same offense within the next 24 months.

(c)     The contents of the personnel file shall be limited to the employment application, personnel
actions formal disciplines, yearly performance evaluations, or other records (i,e., certifications, releases
of information, work-related tratning records.) as required by law or lawful purpose. Employees may
elect to include evaluations and other records in their personnel file upon mutual agreement of the
employee and the manager.

12.9       General

(a)        The Employer and Association may mutually agree, in writing, to extend any timelines of this
article,

(b)        Lie Detector Test: No employee will be directly or indirectly compelled to provide polygraph or
voice stress tests in any disciplinary proceeding under Article 12.




                                                       29
### ARTICLE 13 —- SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES

13.1    Grievance and Mediation Procedures. Alternative Resolution of Grievance Through
        Collaborative Resolution.

Any grievance or dispute which may arise between the parties concerning the application, interpretation
or meaning of this Agreement, shall be settled in the following manner.

Informal tnitial Review: Before filing a written grievance, the employee or Association shall discuss the
complaint with the supervisor and/or department heads to informally resolve the dispute.

Collaborative Resolution Process: At any state of the grievance process, prior to arbitration hearing,
parties may mutually agree to enter into a collaborative resolution process, freezing timelines
established In each grievance step. Upon agreeing to this pracess, parties shall, in writing, mutually
agree upon time frames for completion of the process. The parties may mutually agree to extend those
time frames. If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute via collaborative resolution, the grievance
may be advanced to the next step, All grievance settlements reached through the collaborative
resolution process are non-precedential and shall not be cited by either party or their agents or
members in any arbitration or fact-finding proceedings, Grievance settlements reached through this
process shall be reduced to writing and-signed by the Associations representative, grievant, and
management representative. Actions taken pursuant to the resolution of grievances through the
collaborative resolution process shall not be deemed to establish or change practices under the
Collective Bargaining Agreement or ORS Chapter 243, and shall not give rise to any bargaining or other
consequential abligations.

Step4: If the grievance has not been resolved in the informal process above; it may be presented in
writing by an authorized Association Representative to the Department Head within twenty-one (21)
calendar days after the initial occurrence which gave rise to the grievance, However, the twenty-one
(21) days may be waived in step one by mutual written agreement of the parties.

A grievance regarding a disciplinary matter that resulted in the imposition of a demotion, suspension
without pay, or termination shall be initiated at Step 2 of the grievance process.

The grievance shall clearly set forth the specific basis of the grievance including the relevant facts and
the name(s) of the aggrieved employees, the specific CBA Article(s) , and subsections if applicable,
alleged to be violated and the requested remedy, whather filed at Step 1 or Step 2. If the Association is
unable to articulate the above-described specific information, it will so advise the County and request an
extension of time in which to provide that information. Mutual agreement to the extension will not be
unreasonably withheld.

The Department Head shall respond in writing to the grievance within seven (7) calendar days of receipt.
The response shall be submitted to the Association and grievant.

Step2: If the grievance remains unadjusted, it may be presented by the Association to the County
Administrator within seven (7) calendar days after the response specified in Step 1 is due. The
Association’s presentation shall not be considered a grievance unless it states specifically that it is a
grievance being filed at Step 2 and recites the specific information outlined above. Failure of the
Association to so specify will alleviate the County of any obligation to proceed further.


                                                      30
The County Administrator or designee shall respond in writing to the Association within seven (7)
calendar days.

Any grievance by the County shall be filed with the Association at Step 2 within fourteen (14) calendar
days of its occurrence, and shall be subject to the same requirements contained herein with regard to
the form of the grievance. Association shall respond to any County grievance filed pursuant to Step 2
within fourteen (14) calendar days.

Step3:
Board of Adjustment or Mediation

    (a)   If the grievance does not pertain to an imposition of economic discipline and remains
          unadjusted, it may be presented by County or Association to a Board of Adjustment consisting
          of two persons appointed by County and two persons appointed by Association. The grievance
          shall be submitted within seven (7) calendar days after which the response specified in Step 2 is
          due. The Board shall, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date the grievance is received,
          set a date for a hearing. The Board shall set a hearing date as expeditiously as possible. The
          Board shall hold a hearing at which evidence shall be received, testimony taken, and the right of
          cross-examination provided. The Board shall respond to the parties in seven (7) calendar days
          after the hearing is held. The grievance shall be fully settled if three or more members of the
          Board of Adjustment agree upon a settlement which may be a compromise position of the
          parties. This decision shall be final and binding upon the parties.
    (b)   If the grievance pertains to an imposition of economic discipline and remains unadjusted, it may
          be presented by either party for mediation. The parties will agree to a mutually acceptable
          mediator or agree to use either a mediator appointed by the ERB or another agreed provider.
          Mediation will have a cap of 60 days from notice of election to mediate. If the grievance remains
          unsettled within 60 days, either party may move to Step4(c), binding Arbitration. The parties
          may mutually agree to extend the 60 days, but such must occur before the expiration of the
          initial 60 days.


Step4:
          (a)   If a majority of the Board of Adjustment cannot agree upon a decision and the grievance
                remains unsettled, the members of the Board of Adjustment shall select a fifth member,
                with a desired background in labor, to cast a deciding vote. If the members of the Board of
                Adjustment cannot agree to a fifth member within twenty-one (21) calendar days,
              Association and County shall meet and agree upon a fifth member.
          (b) The parties hereto may, by mutual agreement in writing, suspend or modify the time limits
              specified above about the resolution of any particular grievance or dispute.
          (c)   Notwithstanding subsections (a), in grievances involving the imposition of economic
                discipline or the discharge of an Association member from employment with the County, a
                single arbitrator shall hear the grievance at Step 4. In such an event, the arbitration shall be
                governed by the following procedure.
                (I)     Selection of an Arbitrator. County and Association shall jointly request from the
                        Employment Relations Board the names of seven qualified arbitrators. County and
                        Association will select and arbitrator by alternatively striking names. The order of


                                                         31
                     striking names shall be determined by which party requests arbitration. That party
                     will make the first strike. One name at a time shall be struck until only one name
                     remains on the list, The name remaining on the list shall be accepted by the parties
                     as the arbitrator.
            (Il)     Binding nature; authority. The parties agree that the decision or award of the
                     arbitrator shall be final and binding on each party and that they will abide thereby.
                     The arbitrator shall have no authority to add to, subtract from or change any terms
                     of this Agreement. The arbitrator's decision will be based on at least the following
                     factors: Just cause, due process, and flaws for lack of just cause, the totality of
                     circumstance, public policy, and a reasonable person standard when applicable.
            (Ill)    The arbitrators fee and expenses shall be paid seventy-five percent (75%) by the
                     losing party and twenty-five (25%) by the winning party. Each party is otherwise
                     responsible for their own expenses and all other expenses shall be borne exclusively
                     by the party requiring the service or item for which payment is to be made.


13.2    Association Representatives

(a)     Authorized Association representatives shall be permitted to reasonably investigate and process
grievances without loss of pay. Such persons will notify and gain written approval of his/her supervisor
before leaving the work site to process a grievance, their purpose for said absence and their reasonable
approximate return time. Activities of its representatives in connection with the Association, excepting
attendance at meetings with supervisory personnel and aggrieved employees arlsing out of a grievance
already initiated by an employee shall not interfere with thelr or other employee's arising out ofa -
grievance already initiated by an employee shall not interfere with their or other employee's regular
work assignments as employees of the County.

(b)     Case which involve discipline action that includes termination may involve up to2
representatives on County time,

{c)     Official grievaiice activities shall be limited to affected parties.


{d)      Only designated YCIDWA representatives may represent the employee in the grievance process.
However, both YCIDWA and management may agree to bring in other partles to assist in resolving the
grievance.

13.3.   Grievance Meeting

(a)     Grievance investigation and processing shall be scheduled in a manner that minimizes disruption
to the department operations.


(b)     When because of operational reasons, an Association representative is denied participation in a
grievance investigation or meeting, the representative’s supervisor will accommodate a new meeting
time.



                                                        32
(c)      Whenever possible, a grievance investigation shall be performed in a confidential setting apart
from on-going office operations.

(d)      Official grievance activities shall be limited to affected parties

(e)      All grievance processing and information should be confidential between the parties.


(f)      Association representatives shall not actively seek grievances on County time.

### ARTICLE 14 — PROBATIONARY PERIOD


14.1     Purpose


The probationary period is an integral part of the employee selection process and provides the County
with the opportunity to upgrade and improve the quality of its service by observing a new employee's
work, training and aiding new employees to adjust their positions and by providing an opportunity to
reject any employee whose work performance fails to meet required work standards.


14.2     Duration of Probationary Period

(a)       Ever new employee hired into the bargaining unit shall serve a probationary period of twelve
(12) full months. Except for vacation leave and sick leave less than five consecutive days, time spent on
leave is not included in the probationary period. During the probationary period for a newly-hired
employee the County may terminate the probationary employee for any reason. Any termination of a
probationary employee is not subject to the grievance process and shall in no event constitute a
violation of this Agreement.

(b)    An employee's initial probationary period may be extended up to six (6) additional months if the
department head has reasonable cause to believe that the candidate’s training, certification, or
experience dictate a longer probationary period.

 14.3.   Probationary Conditions

(a)      The Association recognize the right of the County to terminate probationary employees defined
in sections 14.2 above for any reason and to exercise all rights not specifically modified by this
Agreement with respect to such employees, including but not limited to, the shifting of work schedules,
the assignments of on the job training, cross training to other classifications, the assignment to
educational courses and training programs, and the requirement that such employees attend training
programs on their off-duty time for which they will be compensated on a straight time basis by granting
compensatory time off to the extent allowed by the 7(k) exemption, if applicable.

(b)      Probationary employees shall meet not less than monthly with his or her supervisor to review
performance expectations.

(c)      Nothing in section 14.2 diminishes the County’s right to terminate a probationary employee at
any time.


                                                        33
14.4   — Probation in Promotional Position

Persons promoted or reclassified to a higher position shall serve a promotional probationary period of
six months. In the event the employee is unsuccessful in the new position, the employee shall be
returned to the former position or another suitable and available position as determined by the County           .:
Administrator, The supervisor will meet with the promoted employee monthly to review performance
expectations.

14.5      Natice to Assaciation

The County shall provide notice to Association’s president or designee prior to the County
Administrator’s authorization of the hiring of an employee into the bargaining unit at pay level Step 3 or
above to provide the opportunity for the Association to comment.on such hiring to the County
Administrator. Nothing in this section is intended to grant the Association the right to become involved
in the hiring process beyond the ability to voice concerns,

### ARTICLE 15 — LAYOFF AND RECALL

15.1     Definition of Seniority

"Seniority" as used ‘in this article is determined by the length of an employee's continuous service with
the County since the employee's last date of hire. "Continuous service" means the period of service with
the County unbroken by separation from employment with County. Time spent by an employee ona
paid leave or job-related illness or injury shall be included as continuous service. Time spent on unpaid
authorized leave will not be counted as continuous service, but employees returning from unpaid
authorized leave and from layoff status shall be entitled to credit for service prior to the leave or lay off.

15.2     Application of Seniority in Promotions

Determinations of individuals to be promoted within the bargaining unit shall be based upon the skills
and abilities of the employees involved. Where skills and abilities of two or more employees are equal,
the employee with the greater seniority will be promoted.

15.3   When Layoffs Occur

In the event layoffs become necessary, the layoffs shall be by inverse order of seniority within the
classification.                                   :

15.4 Recall

Employees shall be called back from layoff according to seniority in the classification which is re-funded.
A laid-off employee shall retain the right to recall for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of
layoff. Laid-off employees shall be recalled only by certified or registered mail, addressed to the
employee's last address of record with the County, and the employee shall have five (5) days following
the first attempt at delivery of such notification In which to inform the County of intent to return to
work, and an additional ten (10) days therefrom in which to report to work.




                                                      34
### ARTICLE 16 — GENERAL PROVISIONS

16.1    No Discrimination

(a)     The provisions of this Agreement shall be applied equally to all employees in the bargaining unit
without discrimination as to age, sex, marital status, race, color, creed, national origin, political
affiliation, membership or non-membership in the Association, sexual orientation, as also reflected in
the employee handbook, The Association shall share equally with County the responsibility for applying
the provisions of this Agreement.

(b}    All references to employees in this Agreement designated both sexes and gender Identities,
Wherever one gender is used it shall be consulted to include male, female and other gender identities of
employees.

(c)     Employees shall have the right to form, join, and participate in the activities of the Association
or any other labor organization, or to refrain from any of all such activities, and there shall be no
discrimination by either County ar Association by reason of the exercise of such right except as
specifically provided herein.

(d)     Nothing In this Agreement shall be construed as precluding or limiting the right of an employee
to represent him or herself in individual personnel matters.

16.2    Existing Conditions

Only such existing and future work rules and benefits as are specifically covered by the terms of this
Agreement shall be affected by recognition of the Association and the execution of this Agreement. If
modification of work rules or benefits covered by a specific provision of this Agreement is proposed, any
such modification may be negotiated between the parties hereto. Whenever any conditions are
changed or new conditions are established, they shall be posted prominently on all employee bulletin
boards for a petiod of fourteen (14) calendar days. The benefits provided by this Agreement shall be
exclusive and shall be in lieu of all economic or related benefits heretofore provided by the County.
Nothing in this Agreement, however, shall be construed to prohibit or limit the right of the County to
grant bonuses, time off with pay for personal reasons, natural disasters, rescue work or property
damage, consistent with the County's prior practice or orders,

16.3    Negotiations Meetings

County and Association shall notify each other of the names of the persons authorized to negotiate for
the parties. Negotiations shall, to the extent possible, be conducted during normal working hours.
Association negotiators shall be allowed time off with pay for the purpose of attending negotiation
meetings with the County, and so long as such meetings do not interfere with performance or the
employee's job, The allowed time off with pay may include one-half hour prior to the start of the
negotiation meeting and one-half hour after the end of the negotiation meeting. The paid time off does
not include any additional time spent prior to or after adjournment of negotiation meetings When
management establishes a negotiating team, the Association bargaining team with be paid to have an
equal number (or as mutually agreed) of representatives on the team, however the association may
have no less than three (3) team members attend on paid time.




                                                       35
16.4    PayDay

Pay days will be on the 15" and last working day of each month. Each employee's pay will be 50% of the
regular monthly salary and premium pay with deductions for the relevant withholdings. Reporting
periods will be from the 24" through the 8" and 9" through the 23" of each month.

16.5    Copy Machine and Bulletin Board

The County agrees to set up a monthly charge account on behalf of association for use of the County
copy machine at the same rate charged other non-County authorized users. Upon receipt of a quarterly
statement, Association agrees to promptly pay all costs accrued during that quarter.     County business
shall be given priority over non-County business.

The union may use County-provided space for the placement of a bulletin board for the posting of union
related materials, All such postings must be dated and have the name of the posting individual clearly
displayed. The postings will be limited to notice of union meetings and other official union business, The
County reserves the right to remove any non-complying material, with notice to the union. The union
will not block County access to the bulletin board. Union postings shall be confined to being posted on
these bulletin boards.

16.6    Outside Employment

No employees shall apply for, or accept, part time or full-time work, with or without compensation,
whether permanent or temporary, with any employer other than Yamhill County where said work either
adversely affects the employee’s jobs performance or presents a conflict of interest.

16.7    Protective Clothing
(a)    Coveralls, protective shoes and gloves shall be made available without cost to those employees
who work around hazardous materials,

(b)     The County will furnish employees who perform werk outdoors with adequate rain gear
selected by the County for the employee’s position. Fhe County will repair or replace rain gear damaged
or destroyed in the performance of the employee’s dutiesor as a result of normal wear and tear. If the
rain gear is damaged or destroyed in some other manner than the performance of the employee's
duties or as a result of normal wear and tear, the County has fio obligations to repair or replace the rain
gear damaged it furnished.

16.8    Inclement Weather

(a)     The County Administrator or designee has the discretion of closing County offices in the event of
inclement weather.

(b)     If the County Administrator or designee closes the County offices he/she shall use specific
radio/television/email or other agreed upon communication channels. In the event of closure every
attempt will be made to notify employees of closure in a timely manner, Employees shal! not be made
to use comp or vacation time and employees will not suffer a loss in pay. Employee who already had the
day scheduled as off prior to the inclement weather designation, will not be eligible for the inclement
weather pay.


                                                    36
(c)      If conditions are such that individual employees feel travel to and from work is inappropriate for
safety reasons the employee is authorized to use comp time, FET, or leave without pay, In order to use
leave without pay the employee must have exhausted all paid leave time and not be approved for the
use of trade time under the provisions of this Agreement.

(d)     An employee choosing optional time off under this inclement weather policy shall notify the
employer prior to the start of the shift or prior to leaving the work place.

{e)      In the case of Juvenile Detention as it is a legal mandate to protect the safety of the public, the
service shall be staffed on a rotational basis unless outweighed by safety considerations. After the
emergency, employees will be given a minimum of eight (8) hours between the end of their last shift
and the start of their next shift.

16.9     Use of County E-mail System and Other County Equipment/Services

(a)      Subject to subsection (b), Association employees are authorized to use the County email system
to communicate to other Association employees’ on an Infrequent basis, with limited, factual
Association business information such as meeting notices. Use of the County email system is not
authorized to communicate any political information. The use of the County email system is not
authorized for the collection of data for use in Association activities or bargaining without advance
written permission of the department head.

{b)     Use of the County email system is subject to County email policies, including review by
department heads and other persons authorized by County policy. All County email is a public record
and is subject to disclosure unless exempted from disclosure by Oregon law in accordance with the
County email policy.

{c)      Use of County computers and software, County inter-office mail, and any other County
equipment or services is not authorized for Union activities without the express written authorization of
the County Administrator, except as allowed under section 16.5 of this Article.

16.10    Use of Personal Communication Devices

(a)      It is recognized that there is an existing County policy that determines the appropriate use of
County owned communications devices.

{b)      Non-County Owned Devices: The use of non-County owned personal communication devices
during work hours for purely social purposes is prohibited. On an occasional and infrequent basis,
employees may utilize cell phones or other personal communication devices (for example: text
messaging, etc.) to make brief communications where it is necessary for personal business during work
hours, Employees shall make every effort to conduct such personal business on their breaks or during
fanch periods.   Individuals experiencing unique situations that may require exceptions to this policy
should consult with the department head or designee for approval of exceptions. However, no such use
of devices shall occur where the department head has determined and communicated to employees
that there is a need to refrain from the use of such devices due to safety, security concerns or negative
public perception.




                                                      37
16,11   Drug and Alcohol Testing Policy

The pollcy attached and Incorporated into this Agreement as Appendix A and labeled “Drug and Alcohol
Testing Policy” is hereby made a part of this Agreement.

16,12   Personal Items

In the event a member suffers property damage to watches, glasses, authorized jewelry, or personal
effects pertaining to job duties as a result of physical altercation in the line of duty, the member shall be
entitled to reimbursement from the County for such loss up to a maximum payment of $300 per fiscal
year. Prior to payment by the County, the affected member shall assign his rights for recovery from the
perpetrator to the County up to the amount actually paid by the County. Members must have prior
approval from the Employer to use, carry, or possess such personal property while on duty in order to
be covered by this article. Notwithstanding the above, County shall not be required to reimburse the
affected member when such property damage arises as a result of the affected member's awn
negligence,                                             =

### ARTICLE 17 — TRAINING

17.4     Department Training

The Juvenile Detention Division shall develop a specific training policy for continuing education, The
policy shall define for each classification annual limits for paid time off, annual limit for tuition, other
expense reimbursements, specific conditions which may limit the employee’s freedom of choice and a
process for approval of an emplayee’s training plan which shall include required certification. When
establishing Division policy on training and continuing education, the Division shall seek employee input.

17.2     Job Enhancement Training

(a)      Job enhancement training need not be provided or time off granted if an employee has used
his/her defined share of training as per Division policy and/or because of operational need, However, by
mutual agreement, the Division and the employee may agree to provide time off with or without pay,
tuition, or other expenses for training or education which enhances an employee's job skills.

(b)      Training opportunities shall be offered equitably within a classification within the Division.

(c)      Job enhancement training, funded by the County, may be contingent on continuous service with
the County.

(a)      Overtime pay shall not be provided for classroom attendance on voluntary training, unless due
to the nature of the Division’s need for continuous watch, operational needs to the facility require the
employee complete his/her workweek, thus placing the employee over their forty (40) hour work week.

17.3.    Mandated Training

Training which is required by the County will be provided by the County. The exception is for continuing
education units which are required to maintain a current license for FLSA professional classifications,
certification training, or continuing education.




                                                       38
### ARTICLE 18 — SAVINGS CLAUSE AND FUNDING

18.1     Savings Clause

Should any Article, Section, or portion thereof of this Agreement be held unlawful and unenforceable by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision of the court shall apply only to the specific Article,
Section or portion thereof directly specified in the decision, or should any Article, Section or portion
thereof of this Agreement be unlawful, unenforceable, or made illegal through state or federal law, the
parties agree immediately to negotiate a substitute, if possible, for the invalidated Article, Section, or
portion thereof.

18.2.    Funding

The parties recognize that revenue needed to fund wages and benefits provided by the Agreement must
be approved annually by established budget procedures and in certain circumstances by vote of the
citizens of County. All such wages and benefits are therefore contingent upon sources of revenue and,
where applicable, voter budget approval. County has no intention of reducing the wages and benefits
specified in this Agreement because of budgetary limitations, but cannot and does not guarantee any
level of employment in the bargaining unit covered by this Agreement. County agrees to include in its
annual budget request amounts sufficient to fund wages and benefits provided by this Agreement, but
makes no guarantee as to passage of such budget requests pursuant to established budget procedure.
This section and County action thereunder shall not be subject to Article 13.

### ARTICLE 19 — FILLING OF VACANCIES

19.1     ‘Filling of Vacancies

When a job opening occurs within the bargaining unit, other than a temporary (30 days or less) position
in any existing job classification, a notice of such opening shall be posted for at least 5 working days.
During this period, employees who wish to apply for the open position or job, including employees who
may be on layoff, may do so. The application shall be in writing and shall be submitted to the Human
Resources office.

19.2     Lateral Transfer Within the Same Classification

(a)      It shall be the policy of the County to notify employees of vacancies and allow both inter and
intra departmental transfers within the same classification. Approval is subject to the determination of
the department head in his or her sole judgment that the current employee applying for the transfer is
well-qualified for the vacant position and that the transfer is in the best interests of the employee and
the County. When two or more current employees qualify for a lateral transfer, the transfer will be
awarded to the employee deemed best qualified by the department head.

(b)      An interview will be afforded to any applicant for lateral transfer who meets the minimum job
qualifications.

(c)     Trial period for inter-department transfers. An employee who is awarded a lateral transfer
between departments shall serve a trial period in the position as defined in Article 14.4 (Probation in
Promotional Position). The length of the trial period shall be set by mutual agreement between the
department head into which the employee is transferring, the department head from which the


                                                     39
employee is transferring, and the transferring employee in consultation with a union representative.
The trial period shall not be less than 15 days or longer than six months. In the event the employee is
unsuccessful in the trial service period, the supervisor shall notify the employee in writing of the reasons
for failure to successfully complete the trial service period.

(d)                  Department Definition.      For purposes of Article 18.4, a department is defined as an entity in
which employees ultimately report to a Department Head                       who in turn reports to the County
Administrator, or in which employees ultimately report to an elected official.

(e)     Trial period for intra-department transfers. When an employee transfers within a department,
said employee shall serve a trial period in the position as defined in Article 14.4 (Probation in
Promotional Position). The length of the trial service period shall be determined by the department
head, subject to the 15-day minimum period and the six-month maximum period.

(f)      Voluntary Reclassification to a Lower Classification (VRLC). An employee may apply for a
position in a lower classification. The process for application, selection, and determination of the trial
service period for a VRLC shall be the same as for a lateral transfer as noted in sections 18.4 a. through
18.4¢.

(g)                  Use of process.     This process shall not be used as a substitute to the regular disciplinary process
to terminate employees.
### ARTICLE 20 — DURATION

(a)                  This Agreement shall be effective as of July 1, 2023, or the first day of the pay period following
execution, whichever is later and shall remain in full force and effect until June 30, 2026, or until a
successor agreement is reached. Notice to bargain a new contract shall be provided by both parties
prior to January 31 of the expiring year.

(b)                  This Agreement was ratified for County by the Board of Commissioners.

FOR YCJDWA                         :                                      FOR THE COUNTY:
                cr            fo          y:




      Lv,
                Lenae7: HAUL
AARON STOTLER, President                                                  LINDSAY BERSCHAUER, Chair                 '



<Ces—
                                       , Bargaining team member           KIT JOHNSTON, Commissioner




            t
                                       Bargaining team member             MARY STARRETT, Commissioner




                                                                    40
                   , Bargaining team member
                                                   PALE —
                                                   N HUFFER, County
                                                               Sod eininstrctor



APPR         T

By:

       CHRISTIAN BOENISCH
       Yamhill County Legal Counsel




         Accepted by Yarnhill County
         Board of Commissioners on
          GSN. D3 __ by Board Order




                                              41
                         APPENDIX    _A-DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING POLICY




Drug- and Alcohol-Free Workplace
POLICY
COUNTY is committed to providing a safe work environment that fosters the well-being of its
employees. COUNTY has zero tolerance for substance abuse in the workplace, and this policy
is intended to prevent drug and alcohol possession, use, and abuse in our work environment.
The use of any drug or alcohol can interfere with safe and effective employee performance and
productivity. In the workplace, drug and alcohol abuse commonly leads to increased
absenteeism, higher health care costs, lower job performance and productivity, higher incidents
of theft in the workplace, and higher rates of on-the-job accidents resulting in injury to the
abuser and fellow employees. Not only are billions of dollars lost every year due to drug and
alcohol abuse, drug and alcohol abuse results in tremendous negative social impacts on
affected co-workers, families, and friends.

COUNTY follows a drug-free workplace policy that meets its commitment to and promotion of
higher standards of employee performance, productivity, health, safety, and reliability. In order
to provide a safe workplace where all employees can perform effectively, COUNTY treats drug
and alcohol abuse seriously. As a condition of employment, all employees in the YCUDWA
bargaining unit must abide by this policy.                                           .
Under this policy, COUNTY strictly prohibits the following conduct by employees while on duty
or engaged in COUNTY business, regardless of whether such conduct occurs on or off
COUNTY premises:
   .     Report for work or remain at work with a detectable level of alcohol or controlled
         substance, intoxicant, or illegal drug in the employee's system in excess of screening
         and confirmation cutoff levels set forth in this policy;
    *    Engage in unauthorized use of any alcohol, controlled substance, intoxicant, or illegal
         drug on COUNTY premises or on COUNTY time, including rest and meal periods;

    *    Except in the performance of official job duties, possess or attempt to distribute, sell,
         obtain, manufacture, transfer, share, or receive any alcohol, controlled substance,
         intoxicant, illegal drug, or any other substances that impair job performance or pose a
         hazard to the safety and welfare of the employee, coworkers, and members of the
         community;
   *    Use, transfer, or possess drug paraphernalia or open alcohol containers for personal use
        while on COUNTY premises or COUNTY time;
    «    Use prescription or over-the-counter drugs in a manner inconsistent with the label or the
         directions of the prescribing healthcare provider;
    *    Refuse to cooperate with the alcohol or drug testing process or otherwise interfere with
         the test; and


                                                   42
   *   Engage in misconduct that damages the COUNTY’s reputation or an employee's
       working relationship with the COUNTY.

The goal of this policy is to balance our respect for individuals with the need to maintain a safe,
productive, and alcohol- and drug-free environment. Although COUNTY has no intention of
intruding upon the private lives of its employees, employees are expected to report to work
mentally and physically fit to perform their duties. Note that COUNTY policy on searches
include situations involving the potential use or possession of alcohol or drugs on COUNTY
premises or COUNTY time.
Everyone shares responsibility for maintaining a safe work environment for each other, and
coworkers should encourage anyone who may have an alcohol or drug problem to seek help.
We encourage employees who have a substance abuse problem to seek treatment and
rehabilitation through the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) before It impacts thelr health,
relationships, and job.
This policy shall be interpreted so as to conform with the applicable collective bargaining
agreement and applicable federal and state law. It does not and is not intended to alter or
create any terms and conditions of employment, nor shall it be construed as a promise of
continued employment or employment for any length of time.

DEFINITIONS
Controlled Substances — all forms of narcotics, depressants, stimulants, hallucinogens, and
cannabis, whose sale, purchase, transfer, use, or possession is prohibited by state or federal
law.
Drug Paraphernalia — any items which are used for the administering or storing of prohibited
drugs.
INegal Drugs — drugs that are illegal under federal or state law, as well as medically-authorized
(prescription) or over-the-counter drugs which are used, possessed, transferred, or distriputed in
a manner that is inconsistent with its label or the directions of a licensed healthcare provider.
For example, ingesting someone else’s prescription medication or ingesting your own
prescription medication in a manner inconsistent with the drug label or the directions of your
licensed healthcare provider would violate this policy.
Medically-Authorized (Prescription) Drugs — drugs which are used during medical treatment,
prescribed and authorized for use by a licensed healthcare provider, and used In accordance
with the drug Jabel or as directed by the licensed healthcare provider.
Marijuana remains an illegal drug under federal law. Use of marijuana, including medical
marijuana, is prohibited. The use of recreational or medical marijuana where it is legal under
state law-does-not excuse-a positive test result or other violation of this policy.

Over-the-Counter Drugs — drugs which are generally available for purchase or consumption
without prescription from a licensed healthcare provider and are limited to those drugs which
can impair the judgment of an employee to safely perform his or her duties.

Positive Test Result —a detectable level of alcohol or drugs in an employee's system in
excess of screening and confirmation cutoff levels set forth in this policy.


                                                 43
Reasonable Suspicion — a set of objective and specific observations or facts based on direct
observation, either by a supervisor or another employee, which leads one to suspect that an
employee is under the influence of alcohol or drugs, including, but not limited to, physical
evidence of controlled substances, drug paraphernalia, illegal drugs, patterns of erratic or
abnormal behavior, disorientation or confusion, and an inability to complete routine tasks.

MEDICALLY-AUTHORIZED (PRESCRIPTION) DRUGS, OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS,
AND ALCOHOL
When an employee uses over the counter medication or receives a prescription for prescription
drugs from his or her licensed healthcare provider, the employee must ask whether the drugs
will impair his or her ability to safely perform his or her job. If so, the employee must submit a
healthcare provider statement to Human Resources. The healthcare provider should be familiar
with the employee's work duties before signing the statement. The statement need not identify
the drug, and it may simply state that the employee Is unable to perform safety-sensitive
functions (or other relevant    job duties) due to his or her prescription medication. COUNTY may
ask the healthcare provider to complete a fitness-for-duty form indicating when the employee is
expected to be able to perform thé identified job duties or to return to work. Where possible,
COUNTY may but is not required to temporarily assign other work conéistent with the
employee's medical condition.
Abuse of medically-authorized or over-the-counter drugs is a violation of this policy. Using
another person's prescription medication and off-label use of medication In a manner that has
not been directed by a healthcare provider is also considered abuse in violation of this policy.

DRUG AND ALCOHOL TESTING
COUNTY tests for alcohol and drugs under the circumstances described below. We may require
a biological sample, such as urine, saliva, breath, and/or blood samples, for an alcohol or drug
test. When samples are needed for analysis in a laboratory, we will use one that is properly
licensed.
 A.    APPLICANT TESTING
       Any offer of employment may be contingent upon satisfying drug-testing requirements. If
       the applicant failsto comply with this policy or the testing requirements or related
       COUNTY requirements or if the test result is positive, COUNTY will withdraw the offer of
       employment. Refusal to submit to testing will be treated as the applicant's voluntary
       withdrawal of his or her application for employment or declination of an offer of
       employment. An applicant who tampers with, adulterates, or substitutes urine or other
       bodily samples is permanently barred from employment with COUNTY.


  B.   REASONABLE SUSPICION-BASED TESTING
       Employees shall be subject to alcohol or drug testing when there is reasonable
       suspicion.
       When there is reasonable suspicion, the employee may not return to work until fitness
       for duty has been established.


                                                44
        COUNTY reserves the right to decide whether reasonable suspicion exists.


  C.   ACCIDENTS

       An accident includes any incident involving property damage, physical injury, or near
       miss. Any employee who contributes to or causes an accident (e.g., an employee who
       runs over a person while driving) may be subject to a drug test, as are any injured
       employees, at the discretion of COUNTY or as required by law or court order.

       If subsequent incident investigation results in a recommendation for termination of
       employment or other disciplinary action (i.e., for safety or other policy violation), the
       termination or other disciplinary action will occur regardless of the test results.

  D.   TESTING AS REQUIRED BY FEDERAL OR STATE LAW OR REGULATION

       Employees are required to submit to any alcohol or drug tests required by federal or
       state law or regulation while you are working on COUNTY time or on COUNTY
       premises.

       We require all employees to cooperate fully in any COUNTY, administrative, or law
       enforcement investigations related to resulting from this policy. This includes signing any
       necessary authorizations for releasing test results to us.

ALCOHOL OR DRUG TESTING PROCEDURE
A local medical facility or licensed testing facility will collect samples for alcohol and drug
 testing. A local medical facility or licensed testing facility will conduct laboratory and
 confirmatory testing on samples. When an employee is asked to undergo a drug test, he/she will
 be informed of the type of sample that must be provided and the method of sample collection.
 The employee will be asked to provide identification to the person who collects the sample.

All testing will be conducted immediately before, during, or after a work period. Time spent in
testing is considered work time for purposes of compensation and benefits. COUNTY will pay all
costs associated with the alcohol or drug test.

Prior to testing, COUNTY will afford applicants and employees subject to testing the opportunity
to list all prescription and non-prescription drugs and controlled substances that they have used,
as well as the opportunity to explain the circumstances surrounding the use of such drugs and
controlled substances, to the individual or entity administering the alcohol or drug test. Failure of
any employee to establish adequately a legal basis for the use of any drug or controlled
substance with respect to which the employee tests positive shall constitute a violation of this
policy.

Prior to testing, applicants and employees subject to testing must sign an approved form
demonstrating the applicant or employee’s agreement to the testing, authorization to release the
test results to COUNTY management, and authorization to disclose the results by management
to a personnel representative, the employee's supervisor, higher management, and other
persons. Management will obtain the results of the analyses and communicate or disclose such
results to a personnel representative, the employee’s supervisor, higher management, and any
other person in accordance with COUNTY       policies and procedures. All samples will be collected


                                                 45
under reasonable and sanitary conditions and with due regard to the privacy of the individual
who is being tested, and in a manner that is reasonably calculated to prevent substitution or
interference with the collection of a reliable sample. Alt samples will be labeled in a manner that
reasonably precludes the probability of erroneous identification or sample tampering.

Any employee tampering with, substituting, adulterating, falsifying, or altering an alcohol or drug
sample, screening test, or any aspects of the testing process, or providing inaccurate or false
information will be subject to immediate termination.
We reserve the right to discipline an employee, up to and including termination af employment,
or withdraw any offer of employment to an applicant who refuses to submit fo alcohol or drug
testing under the conditions described in this policy or who otherwise falls to comply with this
policy, the testing requirements, or related requests from COUNTY.

Refusal to submit to a test includes failing to produce enough urine, breath, blood, or other
approved physical sample for an alcohol or drug test without valid medical explanation and/or
engaging in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process.

VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE AND POSITIVE TEST RESULTS
           A.   Voluntary Disclosure of Criminal Drug Statute Conviction

Employees who are convicted of any criminal drug statute for a violation occurring in the
workplace must report the conviction to his/her supervisor or Human Resources no later than
five (5) days after the conviction. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this policy.

           B.   Voluntary Disclosure of Violation of Policy
We understand that employees may be hesitant or afraid to ask for help. If an employee
voluntarily discloses alcohol or drug use in violation of this policy to his/her supervisor or Human
Resources prior to a positive drug test result, COUNTY will assist the employee in obtaining
appropriate counseling or treatment, if appropriate under the circumstances. Under these
circumstances and subject to applicable federal and state laws or regulations, COUNTY will
consider at its sole discretion whether to offer an unpaid leave of absence for the duration of
treatment or counseling.
An employee's decision to voluntarily seek treatment or counseling will not be used as a basis
for disciplinary action or in consideration for employment advancement. However, participating
in a treatment or counseling program will not exempt an employee from the requirements of this
policy and will not shield employees from disciplinary action for violating it. A request for
assistance cannot be used as an “after-the-fact” action to counteract potential disciplinary action
as a result of violations of this policy.
Employees must comply with all COUNTY policies, rules, and job performance standards upon
returning to work after completing a voluntary treatment program.

           C.   Positive Test Result
Screening and confirmation cutoff levels to determine Positive Test Results shall be those
published by Redwood Toxicology Laboratory, Inc., a California corporation (“RTL’), at the time
of testing. In the case of a breath test for alcohal, the cutoff level shall be 0.02% blood alcohol
content.                                                      ;

                                                 46
In the event that RTL stops publishes screening and confirmation cutoff levels, the parties agree
to use RTL's last published screening and confirmation cutoff levels unless the parties agree to
different screening and confirmation cutoff levels.
All positive tests are retested for confirmation when possible. If the retest confirms the initial
positive result, we will suspend the employee (without pay) for violation of COUNTY policy.
COUNTY may also take any other appropriate employment action, including, but not limited to:

     *   Denying a job application or rescinding a conditional job offer.
     °   Offering an employee in good standing a Last Chance Agreement with the opportunity to
         seek treatment at a certified drug and alcohol treatment center in lieu of discipline for a
         first-time positive drug test result. The following procedure will apply if the employee
         agrees to the offer:
         (a)      The employee must meet with an accredited EAP counselor. This counselor will
                  assess the employee’s alcohol and/or drug use and establish a treatment
                  program. Failure to cooperate with the EAP counselor or to complete the
                  treatment program constitutes a breach of the Last Chance Agreement.

         fe)      Before returning to work, the employee must submit to an alcohol and/or drug
                  test. This test must be alcohol-free and drug-free to allow the employee to return
                  to work. After returning to work, the employee is required to submit to
                  unscheduled testing at COUNTY’s discretion. The time period for unscheduled
                  testing will be stated in the Last Chance Agreement and may range from 12
                  months to five years. We may also require other conditions. Refusing to take a
                  test during this period constitutes a breach of the Last Chance Agreement.

Employees may enter into only one Last Chance Agreement for the duration of their
employment with the County, including any subsequent periods of employment. Although an
employee's medical benefits may cover some portion of the cost of treatment or counseling, the
employee is solely responsible for treatments or counseling costs. COUNTY assumes no
financial responsibility for such treatment or counseling, regardless of whether it Is part of a Last
Chance Agreement.

APPEAL PROCEDURE
When a sufficient testing sample remains after initial and confirmatory testing with positive test
results, the applicant or employee, at his/ner expense, may appeal the positive test results by
conducting an independent confirmatory test on the sample at a licensed or other testing facility
mutually approved by COUNTY and the employee. An employee may submit and appeal and
request an independent confirmatory test by notifying Human Resources in writing within five
calendar days of receiving notice of the positive test results. The employee must agree to and
arrange for the results of the independent confirmatory test to be sent directly to COUNTY.

There is no appeal procedure for a confirmed positive breath alcohol test.

SEARCH         AND INVESTIGATION

Employees do not have any reasonable expectation of privacy with regard to COUNTY
systems, equipment, or other property, as well as their personal property on COUNTY premises
or other work sites. When there is reason to believe that an employee may be in violation of this

                                                   47
policy, COUNTY may conduct a search of the workplace, including but not limited to drawers,
desks, workstations, lockers, containers, County vehicles, and any County or personal property
on County premises or other work sites. COUNTY reserves the right to retain any substances
that it believes are prohibited and to deliver them to the appropriate law enforcement authorities.
If a search reveals the presence of unauthorized alcohol, controlled substances, intoxicants,
illegal drugs, or drug paraphernalia in violation of this policy, the employee may be subject to
discipline, up to and including termination. Refusing to submit to a search constitutes a violation
of this policy and may also result in disciplinary action, up to an including termination. Except in
emergency situations, searches require the approval of the County Administrator, department
head, or a designee.
WHERE TO GET ASSISTANCE AND INFORMATION ABOUT DRUG AND ALCOHOL
ABUSE
Reliant Behavioral Health (RBH), Employee Assistance Program (EAP) offers 24-hour crisis
help. Confidential and free to employees and any member of their household. Toll free (866)
750-1327 or online at MyRBH.com (access code: yamhillcounty)
The National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependency Helpline is a federally funded
service providing referrals to drug and alcohol programs including referrals to programs
including referrals to programs for those who cannot pay for services. (1-800-662-2255)

Alcoholic’s Anonymous (AA) provides information and support to recovering alcoholics
through local chapters in communities nationwide. (Portland 503-684-041 5/Salem 503-399-
0599)
Narcotics Anonymous (NA) provides information and support to recovering drug addicts
through local chapters in communities nationwide. (Portland 503-345-9839)

Al-Anon provides information on alcoholism and alcohol abuse and refers callers to local Al-
Anon support groups established to help friends and families of alcoholics. (Oregon and. SW
Washington # 503-292-1333)




                                                 48
                              EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
By signing below, | acknowledge that | have read and agree to abide by the terms and
conditions of COUNTY’s Drug- and Alcohol-Free Workplace policy, By signing below, | also
consent to alcohol and/or drug testing and searches as set forth in this policy.

| understand it is my responsibility to read and understand this policy and to contact my
supervisor or Human Resources regarding any aspect of the policy that | do not understand. In
order to maintain a safe work environment for myself and others, as well as to maintain public
safety, | understand the importance of reporting any violation or suspected violation of this
policy to my supervisor or Human Resources.

| understand that this policy does not and is not intended to alter or create any terms or
conditions of employment that are not contained in the applicable collective bargaining
agreement and applicable federal or state laws. Neither this policy nor this acknowledgement
constitute a promise of continued employment or employment for any length of time. | may
terminate my employment with COUNTY at any time and for any reason, with or without notice,
and COUNTY may terminate my employment in accordance with the applicable collective
bargaining agreement and the policies and procedures of COUNTY.
| also understand that COUNTY may change its policies and procedures from time-to-time and
that | will be expected to abide by those policies and procedures as modified.  ;




DATE                                                " SIGNATURE



                                                    PRINT NAME




                                               49
                                                  APPENDIXB
GARRITY WARNING FOR COMPELLED STATEMENT
If the County elects to compel a statement under Article 12, the supervisor shall give the following
warning to the employee:

This interview is an official inquiry under Article 12, Discipline and Discharge, of the labor agreement.
This interview is being conducted because of allegations or information that you may have engaged in
misconduct or improper performance of official duties, and your actlons or involvement may have
constituted criminal conduct,

This inquiry pertains to (state the general nature of the Inquiry}.

The purpose of this interview is to obtain information which will assist in the determination of whether
disciplinary action under Article 12-is warranted,
You will be asked a number of specific questions regarding the performance of your official duties. You
are being compelled to answer these questions for this interview. Disciplinary action, including
dismissal, may be undertaken if you refuse to answer or fail to reply fully and truthfully.

Your answers and any information or evidence gained by reason of your answers cannot be used against
you in any criminal proceeding nor provided to any law enforcement agency unless mandated by law or
court order, The notes and information obtained from this interview are considered confidential
between the employer, Association and employee. If you knowingly and willfully provide false
statements or information in your answers, you may be disciplined up to and including discharge. The
answers you furnish and any information or evidence resulting from false testimony may be used in the
course of disciplinary proceedings under Article 12.

You are hereby advised of your right to have an Association Labor Representative present during this
interview.




        Signature of Supervisor or Investigator                       Signature of Employee

        Date:                                                         Date:




                                                       50
GARRITY WARNING FOR VOLUNTARY STATEMENT

If the County elects to seek a voluntary statement under Article 12, the supervisor shall give the
following warning to the employee:

You are being contacted seeking your cooperation in an inquiry regarding information pertaining to or
allegations of misconduct or improper performance of official duties.

The matter under investigation could also constitute a violation of law which could result in criminal
prosecution of responsible individuals,

This inquiry concerns (state the general nature of the matter)

You have the right to remain silent if your answers may incriminate you.    If you decide to answer
questions or make a statement, you may stop answering at any time.

Although you would normally be expected to answer questions regarding your official duties in this
instance, you are not required to do so. This is a voluntary meeting. Your refusal to answer on the
ground that the answers may incriminate you will not subject you to disciplinary action by the County.

Any statement you furnish may be used as evidence against you, or others, in any future criminal
proceeding or disciplinary proceeding, or both.

WAIVER

| understand these warnings and assurances stated above.     | also have been advised of my right to have
an Association Labor Representative present during this interview.

| knowingly and voluntarily answer questions or make a statement concerning this matter,




         Signature of Supervisor or Investigator                            Signature of Employee

         Date:                                                          -   Date:




         [END OF 2023-2026 AGREEMENT]




                                                    51
